Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Special Note Regarding Smaller Reporting Company Status

Under SEC Release 33-10513; 34-83550, Amendments to Smaller Reporting Company Definition, the Company qualifies as a smaller reporting company based on its public float as of the last business day of the second quarter of fiscal 2024. Accordingly, it has scaled some of its disclosures of financial and non-financial information in this annual report. The Company will continue to determine whether to provide additional scaled disclosures of financial or non-financial information in future quarterly reports, annual reports and/or proxy statements if it remains a smaller reporting company under SEC rules.

Note on Forward-Looking Statements

This report contains statements (including but not limited to certain statements in Items 1, 3, and 7) that are forward-looking as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. Forward-looking statements include the Company’s description of plans and objectives for future operations and assumptions behind those plans. The words “anticipates,” “believes,” “intends,” estimates,” and “expects,” or similar anticipatory expressions, usually identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management’s current expectations that are based on assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may vary because of variations between these assumptions and actual performance. In addition, goals established by the Company should not be viewed as guarantees or promises of future performance. There can be no assurance the Company will be successful in achieving its goals.

The Company intends that such forward-looking statements qualify for the safe harbors from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition to the assumptions and information referred to specifically in the forward-looking statements, other factors, including, but not limited to those factors discussed under Item 1A, Risk Factors, could cause actual results to be materially different from what is presented in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, the making of such statements should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. The Company assumes no obligation, and disclaims any obligation, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information, or otherwise.

Fiscal 2024 Compared to Fiscal 2023

Net Sales

The Katsa acquisition closed on May 31, 2024, and the Company reports its operations on a one-month lag. Therefore, only the opening balance sheet and a bargain purchase gain impact the fiscal year 2024 results.

Net sales for fiscal 2024 increased 6.6%, or $18.2 million, to $295.1 million from $277.0 million in fiscal 2023. The Company continued to experience stable or growing demand across most of the markets served, following the unfavorable impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the Company’s global markets in fiscal 2020 and 2021. With improving operation execution through the year, including a focus on finding solutions to solve supply chain disruptions, the Company was able to deliver sequential revenue improvements through the four quarters of fiscal 2024. Currency translation had a favorable impact on fiscal 2024 sales compared to the prior year totaling $3.7 million, primarily due to the strengthening of the euro against the U.S. dollar.

Sales for our manufacturing segment increased 2.8%, or $6.8 million, versus the same period last year. The largest improvement was seen at the Company’s Veth propulsion operation in the Netherlands, which experienced a 39.1% increase in sales compared to fiscal 2023, including a $2.0 million favorable currency translation impact. The primary driver for this increase was growing demand for the Company’s innovative propulsion solutions around the globe, along with improving supply chain and operational performance. The Company’s domestic manufacturing operation experienced a 4.7% decrease in sales in fiscal 2024, driven by some softening aftermarket demand in the North American energy market and weaker industrial demand related to the North American housing and construction markets. The Company’s Italian manufacturing operations reported a 40.5% decrease in sales from fiscal 2023, primarily due to the sale of the BCS business during the current fiscal year. The Company’s Belgian manufacturing operation saw a 17.9% increase in sales from fiscal 2023 with a favorable translation effect and improved delivery performance driven by operational and supply chain execution. The Company’s Swiss manufacturing operation, which supplies customized propellers for the global mega yacht and patrol boat markets, experienced a 4.8% increase in sales compared to fiscal 2023, primarily due to a recovering European marine market.

Sales for our distribution segment were up 22.1%, or $27.0 million, compared to fiscal 2023, with improving global demand and product delivery from the manufacturing operations. The Company’s Asian distribution operations in Singapore, China and Japan experienced a 31.4% increase in sales on improving deliveries for energy related products in China and strong commercial marine demand in the region. The Company’s North America distribution operation saw a 6.9% increase on strong domestic demand for marine products from the European operations. The Company’s European distribution operation saw a significant increase (25.2%) on strong demand, a favorable currency impact and improved supply of product. The Company’s distribution operation in Australia, which provides boat accessories, propulsion and marine transmission systems for the pleasure craft market, saw an increase in revenue of 4.8%, primarily due to continued strong demand for pleasure craft products in the region.

Net sales for the Company’s marine transmission and propulsion systems were up 16.2% in fiscal 2024 compared to the prior fiscal year. This increase reflects generally strong market conditions, continued global growth of the Veth product and a general easing of supply chain constraints during the fiscal year. In the off-highway transmission market, the year-over-year increase of 7.5% can be attributed primarily to strength in North American aftermarket product sales for the oil and gas industry, historically high demand for the Company’s ARFF (airport rescue and firefighting) transmission and sales of the Company’s pressure pumping transmission systems into China. The decrease experienced in the Company’s industrial products of 13.8% was a function of weaker demand in the North American construction and recycling markets.

Geographically, sales to the U.S. and Canada declined 21% in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023, representing 28% of consolidated sales for fiscal 2024 compared to 36% in fiscal 2023. The decrease is primarily due to the weaker domestic demand for oil and gas related units, along with a decline in industrial product demand. Sales into the Asia Pacific market improved 27% compared to fiscal 2023 and represented approximately 28% of sales in fiscal 2024, compared to 25% in fiscal 2023. The increase in fiscal 2024 reflects increased demand for commercial marine and patrol craft related products, a continued strong Australian pleasure craft market and stable demand for the Company’s oil and gas transmissions by the Chinese market. Sales into the European market improved approximately 17% from fiscal 2023 levels while accounting for 33% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2024 compared to 33% of net sales in fiscal 2023. The region enjoyed strong demand for the Company’s Veth propulsion products, driving much of the fiscal 2024 growth. See Note J, Business Segments and Foreign Operations, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the Company’s business segments and foreign operations.

Gross Profit

In fiscal 2024, gross profit improved $9.0 million, or 12.1%, to $83.3 million on a sales increase of $18.2 million. Gross profit as a percentage of sales increased 140 basis points in fiscal 2024 to 28.2%, compared to 26.8% in fiscal 2023.

There were a number of factors that impacted the Company’s overall gross profit rate in fiscal 2024. Gross profit for the year was primarily impacted by improved volumes (approximately $4.9 million) and a more favorable product mix (approximately $2.1 million). This was driven by the global economic recovery that started in fiscal 2021 following the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and an increase in the sales of high-margin oil and gas transmissions. The remaining increase ($2.0 million) is the result of price realization, cost reduction efforts and improved productivity at our operating facilities.

Marketing, Engineering and Administrative (ME&A) Expenses

Marketing, engineering, and administrative (ME&A) expenses of $71.6 million were up $9.4 million, or 15.1%, in fiscal 2024 compared to the prior fiscal year. As a percentage of sales, ME&A expenses increased to 24.3% of sales versus 22.5% of sales in fiscal 2023. The increase in ME&A spending in fiscal 2024 compared to the prior year was driven increased salaries and benefits ($1.9 million), global bonus expense ($1.8 million), travel and entertainment ($0.9 million), stock compensation expense ($0.6 million), professional fees ($0.6 million), lease expense ($0.5 million), a transfer tax payment related to the Katsa acquisition ($0.4 million), commission and marketing expense ($0.4 million), depreciation and amortization ($0.7 million), a currency exchange driven increase ($0.4 million) and other inflationary and volume related increases ($1.2 million).

Restructuring of Operations

During the course of fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 the Company incurred $0.2 million and $0.2 million in restructuring charges, respectively. These charges relate to a continued restructuring program at the Company’s Belgian operation to focus resources on core manufacturing process, while allowing for savings on the outsourcing of non-core processes.

Interest Expense

Interest expense of $1.4 million for fiscal 2024 was $0.8 million lower than fiscal 2023 due to a decreased average balance, partially offset by an increased average interest rate on the domestic revolver.

Other Income, Net

In fiscal 2024, other income, net, of $5.3 million increased by $4.7 million from the prior fiscal year other income, net, of $0.7 million. This change is primarily due to the impact of a bargain purchase gain related to the acquisition of Katsa ($3.7 million). See Note B, Acquisition of Katsa Oy, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a full description of this acquisition.

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate for fiscal 2024 is 26.8% compared to 26.2% for fiscal 2023.

The Company maintains valuation allowances when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Changes in valuation allowances from period to period are included in the tax provision in the period of change. In determining whether a valuation allowance is required, the Company takes into account such factors as prior earnings history, expected future earnings, carry-back and carry-forward periods, and tax strategies that could potentially enhance the likelihood of realization of a deferred tax asset. Management believes that it is more likely than not that the results of future operations will not generate sufficient taxable income and foreign source income to realize all the domestic deferred tax assets, therefore, the company recorded in fiscal year 2024 and 2023, the valuation allowance of $24.0 million and $22.3 million, respectively.

Order Rates

As of June 30, 2024, the Company’s backlog of orders scheduled for shipment during the next six months (six-month backlog), which includes the impact of the Katsa acquisition, was $133.7 million or approximately 12% higher than the six-month backlog of $119.2 million as of June 30, 2023. The increased backlog is primarily attributable to continued strength in order rates throughout the fiscal year, along with the addition of Katsa backlog ($12.6 million). These increases were partially offset by a reduction in past due orders resulting from improved operational performance and the elimination of the BCS backlog ($5.3 million) due to the sale of that business during the fiscal year.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Fiscal Years 2024 and 2023

The Katsa acquisition closed on May 31, 2024, and the Company reports its operations on a one-month lag. Therefore, only the opening balance sheet and a bargain purchase gain impact the fiscal year 2024 results.

The net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2024 totaled $33.8 million, an improvement of $10.9 million from the prior fiscal year cash provided by operating activities of $22.9 million. The positive movement in operating cash flow was created primarily by a strong earnings result and favorable working capital movements. The Company has begun to make significant progress on its inventory reduction initiatives, driving a $12.0 million decrease (excluding the Katsa acquisition) during the second half of fiscal 2024.

The net cash used by investing activities for fiscal 2024 primarily represents the acquisition of Katsa ($23.2 million) and the acquisition of property, plant and equipment ($8.7 million). The capital spending amount reflects a return to somewhat normalized capital spending levels, still somewhat hampered by extended lead times on equipment resulting from global supply chain challenges.

The net cash provided by financing activities relates primarily to borrowings of long-term debt ($7.4 million) impacted by the Katsa acquisition, along with payments for dividends ($1.7 million), withholding taxes on stock compensation ($1.8 million), payments on finance lease obligations ($0.9 million) and dividends paid to a non-controlling interest ($0.3 million). During fiscal 2024, the Company did not purchase any shares as part of its Board-authorized stock repurchase program. The Company has 315,000 shares remaining under its authorized stock repurchase plan.

Future Liquidity and Capital Resources

On June 29, 2018, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with BMO Harris Bank N.A. (“BMO”) that provided for the assignment and assumption of the previously existing loans between the Company and Bank of Montreal (the “2016 Credit Agreement”) and subsequent amendments into a term loan (the “Term Loan”) and revolving credit loans (each a “Revolving Loan” and, collectively, the “Revolving Loans,” and, together with the Term Loan, the “Loans”). Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, BMO agreed to make the Term Loan to the Company in a principal amount not to exceed $35.0 million and the Company may, from time to time prior to the maturity date, enter into Revolving Loans in amounts not to exceed, in the aggregate, $50.0 million (the “Revolving Credit Commitment”), subject to a Borrowing Base based on Eligible Inventory and Eligible Receivables. Subsequent amendments to the Credit Agreement reduced the Term Loan to $20.0 million, extended the maturity date of the Term Loan to April 1, 2027, and require the Company to make principal installment payments on the Term Loan of $0.5 million per quarter. In addition, under subsequent amendments to the Credit Agreement, BMO’s Revolving Credit Commitment is currently $45.0 million. The Credit Agreement also allows the Company to obtain Letters of Credit from BMO, which if drawn upon by the beneficiary thereof and paid by BMO, would become Revolving Loans. Under the Credit Agreement, the Company may not pay cash dividends on its common stock in excess of $5.0 million in any fiscal year. The term of the Revolving Loans under the Credit Agreement currently runs through April 1, 2027.

Under the Credit Agreement as amended, interest rates are based on either the secured overnight financing rate (“SOFR”) or the euro interbank offered rate (the “EURIBO Rate”). Loans are designated either as “SOFR Loans,” which accrue interest at an Adjusted Term SOFR plus an Applicable Margin, or “Eurodollar Loans,” which accrue interest at the EURIBO Rate plus an Applicable Margin. Amounts drawn on a Letter of Credit that are not timely reimbursed to the Bank bear interest at a Base Rate plus an Applicable Margin. The Company also pays a commitment fee on the average daily Unused Revolving Credit Commitment equal to an Applicable Margin. Currently, the Applicable Margins are between 2.00% and 3.50% for Revolving Loans and Letters of Credit; 2.125% and 3.625% for Term Loans; and 0.15% and 0.30% for the Unused Revolving Credit Commitment (each depending on the Company’s Total Funded Debt to EBITDA ratio).

The Credit Agreement, as amended, requires the Company to meet certain financial covenants. Specifically, the Company’s Total Funded Debt to EBITDA ratio may not exceed 3.50 to 1.00, and the Company’s Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio may not be less than 1.10 to 1.00. In determining whether the Company is in compliance with its Total Funded Debt/EBITDA Ratio, the Company’s EBITDA will include transaction expenses of up to $0.6 million for the Katsa acquisition, as well as pro-forma EBITDA of Katsa as permitted by the Bank. The Company’s Tangible Net Worth may not be less than $100.0 million plus 50% of positive Net Income for each fiscal year ending on or after June 30, 2023.

Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the Company’s personal property, including accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment, and intellectual property. The Company has also pledged 100% of its equity interests in certain domestic subsidiaries and 65% of its equity interests in certain foreign subsidiaries. The Company also entered into a Collateral Assignment of Rights under Purchase Agreement for its acquisition of Veth Propulsion. To effect these security interests, the Company entered into various amendment and assignment agreements that consent to the assignment of certain agreements previously entered into between the Company and the Bank of Montreal in connection with the 2016 Credit Agreement. The Company also amended and assigned to BMO a Negative Pledge Agreement that it has previously entered into with Bank of Montreal, pursuant to which it agreed not to sell, lease or otherwise encumber real estate that it owns except as permitted by the Credit Agreement and the Negative Pledge Agreement.

The Company has also entered into a Deposit Account Control Agreement with the Bank, reflecting the Bank’s security interest in deposit accounts the Company maintains with the Bank. The Bank may not provide a notice of exclusive control of a deposit account (thereby obtaining exclusive control of the account) prior to the occurrence or existence of a Default or an Event of Default under the Credit Agreement or otherwise upon the occurrence or existence of an event or condition that would, but for the passage of time or the giving of notice, constitute a Default or an Event of Default under the Credit Agreement.

Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, BMO may take the following actions upon written notice to the Company: terminate its remaining obligations under the Credit Agreement; declare all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable; and demand the Company to immediately Cash Collateralize L/C Obligations in an amount equal to 105% of the aggregate L/C Obligations or a greater amount if BMO determines a greater amount is necessary. If such Event of Default is due to the Company’s bankruptcy, BMO may take the three actions listed above without notice to the Company.

On April 1, 2024, the Company entered into Amendment No. 10 to Credit Agreement (the “Tenth Amendment”) that amended and extended the Credit Agreement. The Tenth Amendment increased the Revolving Credit Commitment from $40.0 million to $45.0 million, and also increased the Borrowing Base for Revolving Loans from the sum of (a) 85% of outstanding unpaid Eligible Receivable and (b) the lesser of $30.0 million and 50% of Eligible Inventory to the sum of (a) 85% of outstanding unpaid Eligible Receivables and (b) the lesser of $35.0 million (reduced to $32.5 million beginning with the first quarter of the 2026 fiscal year) and 60% of Eligible Inventory (reduced to 55% of Eligible Inventory beginning with the third quarter of the 2025 fiscal year, and 50% of Eligible Inventory beginning with the first quarter of the 2026 fiscal year).

The Company used the increased borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement to help finance its acquisition of Katsa by TD Finland Holding Oy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The Tenth Amendment specifically permitted the Company to use Revolving Loans for the Katsa acquisition. In addition, in determining whether the Company is in compliance with its Total Funded Debt/EBITDA Ratio, the Company’s EBITDA will include transaction expenses of up to $0.6 million for the Katsa acquisition, as well as pro-forma EBITDA of Katsa as permitted by the Bank.

The Tenth Amendment also extended the Credit Agreement through April 1, 2027 and extended the maturity date of the Term Loan and the Term Loan Commitment Date to April 1, 2027.

The Tenth Amendment also increased the Applicable Margins under the Credit Agreement for purposes of determining interest rates on Revolving Loans, Letters of Credit, Term Loans, and the Unused Revolving Credit Commitment. Prior to the Tenth Amendment, the Applicable Margins were between 1.25% and 2.75% for Revolving Loans and Letters of Credit; 1.375% and 2.875% for Term Loans; and.10% and.15% for the Unused Revolving Credit Commitment (each depending on the Company’s Total Funded Debt to EBITDA ratio). Under the Tenth Amendment, the Applicable Margins are between 2% and 3.5% for Revolving Loans and Letters of Credit; 2.125% and 3.625% for Term Loans; and.15% and.3% for the Unused Revolving Credit Commitment (each depending on the Company’s Total Funded Debt to EBITDA ratio).

The Tenth Amendment also increased the amount of Restricted Payments that the Company may make in the form of cash dividends, distributions, purchases, redemptions, or other acquisitions of its common stock from $3.0 million to $5.0 million in any fiscal year.

The Company remains in compliance with its liquidity and other covenants.

Management believes that available cash, the Credit Agreement, the unsecured lines of credit, cash generated from future operations, and potential access to debt markets will be adequate to fund the Company's cash and capital requirements for the foreseeable future.

The Company’s balance sheet remains strong, there are no material off-balance-sheet arrangements, and it continues to have sufficient liquidity for its near-term needs. The Company had approximately $26.5 million of available borrowings under the Credit Agreement as of June 30, 2024. The Company expects to continue to generate enough cash from operations, as well as its credit facilities, to meet its operating and investing needs. As of June 30, 2024, the Company also had cash of $20.1 million, primarily at its overseas operations. These funds, with some restrictions and tax implications, are available for repatriation as deemed necessary by the Company. In fiscal 2025, the Company expects to contribute $0.5 million to its defined benefit pension plans, the minimum contribution required.

Net working capital decreased $0.5 million, or 0.4%, during fiscal 2024 and the current ratio (calculated as total current assets divided by total current liabilities) remained flat at 2.2 for both June 30, 2024 and June 30, 2023. The decrease in net working capital was primarily the result of an increase to trade payables ($3.9 million), accrued salaries ($2.9 million) and accrued liabilities ($10.9 million), along with a decrease to other current assets ($2.9 million – related to reclassification of assets held for sale of $3.0 million). These reductions were partially offset by increases to cash ($6.8 million) and trade receivables ($2.5 million). The working capital movements are largely a result of the Katsa acquisition and growing demand and supply chain imbalances, along with successful efforts to drive inventory reduction. Excluding the Katsa acquisition, inventory decreased by $11.5 million from the end of fiscal 2023.

The Company expects capital expenditures to be approximately $14 million - $16 million in fiscal 2025. These anticipated expenditures reflect the Company’s plans to invest in modern equipment to drive efficiencies, quality improvements and cost reductions.

Management believes that available cash, the credit facility, cash generated from future operations, and potential access to debt markets will be adequate to fund the Company’s capital requirements for the foreseeable future.

Contractual Obligations

The Company's significant contractual obligations as of June 30, 2024 are discussed in Note I “Lease Obligations” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K. There are no material undisclosed guarantees. As of June 30, 2024, the Company had no additional material purchase obligations other than those created in the ordinary course of business related to inventory and property, plant and equipment, which generally have terms of less than 90 days. The Company also has long-term obligations related to its postretirement plans which are discussed in detail in Note N “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this 2024 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Postretirement medical claims are paid by the Company as they are submitted, and they are anticipated to be $0.5 million in fiscal 2025 based on actuarial estimates; however, these amounts can vary significantly from year to year because the Company is self-insured. In fiscal 2025, the Company expects to contribute $0.5 million to its defined benefit pension plans, the minimum contribution required.

Other Matters

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of this Annual Report requires management’s judgment to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates.

The Company’s significant accounting policies are described in Note A, Significant Accounting Policies, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Not all of these significant accounting policies require management to make difficult, subjective, or complex judgments or estimates. However, the policies management considers most critical to understanding and evaluating its reported financial results are the following:

Business Combinations

The Company utilizes the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations and allocates the purchase price of an acquisition to the various tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The Company primarily establishes fair value using the income approach based upon a discounted cash flow model. The income approach requires the use of many assumptions and estimates including future revenues and expenses, as well as discount factors and income tax rates. Other estimates include:

While the Company uses its best estimates and assumptions as part of the purchase price allocation process to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the business acquisition date, its estimates and assumptions are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the purchase price allocation period, which is generally one year from the business acquisition date, the Company records adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill or bargain purchase gain. For changes in the valuation of intangible assets between preliminary and final purchase price allocation, the related amortization is adjusted in the period it occurs. Subsequent to the purchase price allocation period any adjustment to assets acquired or liabilities assumed is included in operating results in the period in which the adjustment is determined.

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans

The Company provides a wide range of benefits to employees and retired employees, including pensions and postretirement health care coverage. Plan assets and obligations are recorded annually based on the Company’s measurement date utilizing various actuarial assumptions such as discount rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, retirement and mortality tables, and health care cost trend rates as of that date. The approach used to determine the annual assumptions are as follows:

Measurements of net periodic benefit cost are based on the assumptions used for the previous year-end measurements of assets and obligations. The Company reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions when appropriate. The effects of the modifications are recorded currently or amortized over future periods. Based on information provided by its independent actuaries and other relevant sources, the Company believes that the assumptions used are reasonable; however, changes in these assumptions could impact the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023, the Company voluntarily changed its method of accounting for recognizing actuarial gains and losses for its defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans. Under the accounting method change, accumulated actuarial gains and losses as determined upon the annual remeasurement of projected benefit obligation and plan assets are recognized sooner in earnings through net periodic benefit cost within Other Income (Expense) on the Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income.

Income Taxes and Valuation Allowances

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The Company maintains valuation allowances when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is required, the Company considers such factors as prior earnings history, expected future earnings, carry-back and carry-forward periods, and tax strategies that could potentially enhance the likelihood of realization of a deferred tax asset. Based on the above criteria the Company has determined that a full valuation allowance is appropriate as relates to its domestic operations. A full domestic valuation allowance of $24.0 million has been recognized at June 30, 2024. The recognition of a valuation allowance does not affect the availability of the tax credits as the Company realizes earnings.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

See Note A, Significant Accounting Policies, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative