—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

General 

The following is management’s analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations as of and for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023. This discussion is designed to provide a more comprehensive review of the operating results and financial position than could be obtained from an examination of the financial statements alone. This analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related footnotes and the selected financial data included elsewhere in this report.

Forward-Looking Statements 

Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which are not statements of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words “may,” “continue,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “seek,” “will,” “believe,” “project,” “expect,” “anticipate” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements may involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict, may be beyond our control, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in such statements. Any such forward-looking statements are made only as of the date of this report or the respective dates of the relevant incorporated documents, as the case may be, and, except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results for future periods to differ materially from those anticipated or projected include, but are not limited to:

The risks and uncertainties identified above are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely affect us. Should any known or unknown risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, those developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

Overview 

Consumers Bancorp, Inc., a bank holding company incorporated under the laws of the State of Ohio, owns all the issued and outstanding capital stock of Consumers National Bank, a bank chartered under the laws of the United States of America. The Company’s activities have been limited primarily to holding the common stock of the Bank. The Bank’s business involves attracting deposits from businesses and individual customers and using such deposits to originate commercial, mortgage and consumer loans in its market area, consisting primarily of Carroll, Columbiana, Jefferson, Mahoning, Stark, and Summit counties in Ohio. Its market includes these counties as well as the contiguous counties in northeast Ohio, western Pennsylvania, and northern West Virginia. The Bank also invests in securities consisting primarily of U.S. government-sponsored agencies, municipal obligations, agency issued mortgage-backed and collateralized mortgage obligations.

Net Income. Net income was $8,580 for fiscal year 2024 compared with $10,674 for fiscal year 2023. The following key factors summarize our results of operations for the year ended June 30, 2024 compared with the same prior year period:

Return on average equity and return on average assets were 14.95% and 0.80%, respectively, for fiscal year 2024 compared with 20.27% and 1.05%, respectively, for the same period last year.

Net Interest Income. Net interest income, the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest expense incurred on interest-bearing liabilities, is the largest component of the Company’s earnings. Net interest income is affected by changes in the volumes, rates and composition of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, prevailing economic conditions, fiscal and monetary policies, and the policies of various regulatory agencies all affect market rates of interest and the availability and cost of credit, which, in turn, can significantly affect net interest income.

Net interest margin is calculated by dividing net interest income on a fully tax equivalent basis (FTE) by total interest-earning assets. FTE income includes tax-exempt income, restated to a pre-tax equivalent, based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 21.0%. All average balances are daily average balances. Non-accruing loans are included in average loan balances and average securities include unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale, while yields are based on average amortized cost. In fiscal year 2024, the taxable equivalent adjustment to net interest income was negative since the interest expense attributable to carrying tax exempt securities is not deductible.

FTE net interest income for fiscal year 2024 was $31,699, a decrease of $2,220 or 6.5%, from $33,919 in fiscal year 2023. The Company’s tax equivalent net interest margin was 3.00% for fiscal year 2024 and 3.37% for fiscal year 2023. FTE interest income for fiscal year 2024 was $48,925, an increase of $7,782, or 18.9%, from fiscal year 2023, primarily because of a 55-basis point increase in the yield on interest earning assets and a $44,481, or 4.6%, increase in average interest-earning assets from fiscal year 2023. The Company’s yield on average interest-earning assets was 4.64% for the 2024 fiscal year compared with 4.09% for the same period last year. The growth in average interest-earning assets was primarily a result of a $70,533, or 10.7%, increase in average loans.

Interest expense for fiscal year 2024 was $17,226, an increase of $10,002 from fiscal year 2023 primarily because of an increase in deposit and short-term borrowing costs as a result of higher market interest rates and increased competition for deposits. The Company’s average cost of funds was 2.25% for fiscal year 2024 compared with 1.03% for the same prior year period.

Average Balance Sheet and Net Interest Margin 

The following table presents the changes in the Company’s interest income and interest expense resulting from changes in interest rates and changes in the volume of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes attributable to both rate and volume that cannot be segregated have been allocated in proportion to the changes due to rate and volume.

INTEREST RATES AND INTEREST DIFFERENTIAL 

Provision for Credit Losses. The provision for credit losses on loans represents the charge to income necessary to adjust the allowance for credit losses on loans to a level considered appropriate by management to absorb estimated losses over the expected life of loans. The provision for credit losses on unfunded commitments represents the charge to income necessary to adjust the allowance for credit losses on off-balance sheet credit exposures for the expected credit losses over the contractual period for which the Company is exposed to credit risk resulting from a contractual obligation to extend credit.

A provision for credit losses on loans of $556 was recorded in fiscal year 2024 compared with a $855 provision for loan losses in fiscal year 2023. The provision for credit losses on loans recorded in fiscal year 2024 was primarily due to the organic growth within the loan portfolio. For fiscal year 2024, net charge offs of $402, or 0.05% of total loans, were recorded compared with $291, or 0.04% of total loans, for the same period last year. The allowance for credit losses as a percentage of loans was 1.04% at June 30, 2024 and 1.09% at June 30, 2023. The decline in the allowance for credit losses as a percentage of total loans was due to the improvement in economic conditions, as the economy has remained resilient following the pandemic and through the rapid rise in short-term interest rates, as well as, substandard and non-accrual loans being at low levels.

Non-performing loans were $858, or 0.11% of total loans, as of June 30, 2024. This compared with $104, or 0.01% of total loans, as of June 30, 2023. Non-performing loans have been considered in management’s analysis of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses. Management and the Board of Directors closely monitor these loans and believe the prospect for recovery of principal, less identified specific reserves, are favorable.

Other Income. Total other income increased by $149, or 3.1%, to $4,896 for fiscal year 2024. Service charges on deposit accounts increased by $86, or 5.4%, in fiscal year 2024 primarily as a result of increases in personal and business service charges on demand deposit accounts. Debit card interchange income increased by $131, or 6.0% in fiscal year 2024 because of increased debit card usage and an increase in the number of cards issued. These increases were partially offset by an $80 loss on the sale of securities as lower yielding securities were sold to reinvest at higher market rates.

Other Expenses. Total other expenses were $25,844 for the year ended June 30, 2024; an increase of $1,159, or 4.7%, from $24,685 for the year ended June 30, 2023.

Salaries and employee benefit expenses increased by $396, or 2.8%, during fiscal year 2024 primarily due to merit and cost of living increases that were partially offset by lower incentive expenses.

Debit card processing expenses increased by $110, or 9.8%, in fiscal year 2024 compared to the same prior year period primarily due to an increase in customer card usage and an increase in the number of cards issued. FDIC assessments increased by $193, or 31.7%, in fiscal year 2024 primarily because of an increase in the initial base deposit insurance assessment rate paid by all insured depository institutions. Financial institutions tax expenses decreased by $45, or 9.4%, in fiscal year 2024 since this is a capital-based tax and total capital was lower as of the measurement date in fiscal year 2024 because of the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Other expenses increased by $268, or 13.0%, primarily because of increased check and debit card fraud losses. Management has implemented new software fraud monitoring tools that it believes will help to mitigate these losses in the future.

Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense totaled $1,845 and $2,248 and the effective tax rates were 17.7% and 17.4% for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Income tax expense was calculated utilizing a statutory federal income tax rate of 21.0% in fiscal years 2024 and 2023. The effective tax rate differs from the federal statutory rate as a result of tax-exempt income from obligations of states and political subdivisions, loans, bank owned life insurance earnings, and the low-income housing tax credits.

Financial Condition

Total assets as of June 30, 2024 were $1,097,089 compared with $1,060,024 at June 30, 2023, an increase of $37,065, or 3.5%. The growth in total assets is mainly attributable to an increase of $48,752, or 6.9%, in total loans and was primarily funded by a $20,447, or 2.1%, increase in total deposits.

Securities. Total securities were $270,856 at June 30, 2024, of which $264,802 were classified as available-for-sale and $6,054 were classified as held-to-maturity. The securities portfolio is mainly comprised of mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations issued by U.S. government sponsored entities and obligations of state and political subdivisions. The following tables summarize the amortized cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities at June 30, 2024 and 2023 and the corresponding amounts of gross unrealized gains and losses recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss:

The following tables summarize the amortized cost and fair value of held-to-maturity securities at June 30, 2024 and 2023 and the corresponding gross unrecognized gains and losses:

The following tables summarize the amounts and distribution of the Company’s securities held and the weighted average yields as of June 30, 2024: 

The weighted average interest rates are based on coupon rates for securities purchased at par value and on effective yields considering amortization or accretion if the securities were purchased at a premium or discount. The weighted average yield on tax-exempt obligations has been calculated on a tax equivalent basis. Average yields are based on amortized cost balances.

Loans. Loan receivables increased by $48,752, or 6.9%, to $759,114 at June 30, 2024 compared to $710,362 at June 30, 2023. Commercial & industrial loans increased by $15,184, or 13.5%, primarily because of a third-party residential mortgage warehouse line-of-credit that had a balance of $26,159 as of June 30, 2024 and a balance of $10,000 as of June 30, 2023. Consumer loans increased by $7,265, or 11.1%, primarily as a result of the expansion of indirect auto lending. Major classifications of loans, net of deferred loan fees and costs, were as follows as of June 30: 

The following table shows the major classifications of loans, net of deferred fees and costs, which are based on the contractual terms for repayment of principal, that are due in the periods indicated as of June 30, 2024: 

The following is a schedule of fixed and variable rate loans due after one year (variable rate loans are those loans with floating or adjustable interest rates) as of June 30, 2024:

Allowance for Credit Losses on Loans. On July 1, 2023, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which caused an increase in the allowance for credit losses of $52 and the recording of a liability for expected credit losses on unfunded loans and other commitments of $308. The reserve for unfunded commitments is primarily related to 1 - 4 family home equity lines of credit and construction loans, land development loans, and commercial construction loans. The increase in the allowance and the recording of the liability resulted in a decrease in the retained earnings account on our Consolidated Balance Sheet equal to the after-tax impact, with the tax impact portion being recorded in deferred taxes on our Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with FASB guidance.

The allowance for credit losses consists of general and specific components. The general component covers loans collectively evaluated for credit loss and is based on peer historical loss experience adjusted for current and forecasted factors. Management's adjustments to the quantitative evaluation may be for trends in delinquencies, trends in the volume of loans, changes in underwriting standards, changes in the value of underlying collateral, the existence and effect of portfolio concentration, regulatory environment, economic conditions, Company management and the status of portfolio administration including the Company’s loan review function.

The specific component includes loans that do not share similar risk characteristics that are evaluated on an individual basis and are excluded from the pooling approach. As of June 30, 2024, individually evaluated loans totaled $26,933 and included the $26,159 third-party residential mortgage warehouse line-of-credit and $774 of nonaccrual loans. The warehouse line-of-credit is included in individually evaluated loans because of the unique structure of the loan given the short-term nature of the advances, curtailment features provided by the financial institution that the line-of-credit is issued to, as well as being secured by individual residential properties. As of June 30, 2023, under the incurred loan loss methodology, individually evaluated loans totaled $405 and included $351 of performing loans classified as troubled debt restructurings and $54 of nonaccrual loans. As of June 30, 2024, there was a specific reserve of $67 allocated to the individually evaluated loans and there was no specific allocation as of June 30, 2023.

Failure to receive principal and interest payments when due on any loan results in efforts to restore such loan to a current status. Loans are classified as non-accrual when, in the opinion of management, full collection of principal and accrued interest is not expected. The loans must be brought and kept current for six sustained payments before being considered for removal from non-accrual status. The Company adopted ASU 2022-02, Financial Instruments- Credit Losses (Topic 326): Troubled Debt Restructuring and Vintage Disclosures, during fiscal year 2024. This amendment eliminated the troubled debt restructuring recognition and measurement guidance and, instead, requires that an entity evaluate (consistent with the accounting for other loan modifications) whether the modification represents a new loan or a continuation of an existing loan. There were no reportable loan modifications during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024. Under the previous incurred loan loss methodology, as of June 30, 2023, impaired loans totaled $405, of which $54 are included in non-accrual loans. Continued unsuccessful collection efforts generally lead to initiation of foreclosure or other legal proceedings. 

The following table summarizes non-accrual loans, non-performing assets, and associated ratios for the years ended June 30:

The non-performing loans are either in the process of foreclosure or efforts are being made to work with the borrower to bring the loan current. Properties and vehicles acquired by the Company as a result of foreclosure or repossession, or by deed in lieu of foreclosure, are classified as “other real estate and repossessed assets owned” until they are sold or otherwise disposed of.

The following table summarizes the Company’s net (charge-offs) recoveries by loan category and the ratio of net (charge-offs) recoveries to average loans for the years ended June 30:

The following schedule is a breakdown of the allowance for credit losses allocated by type of loan and related ratios:

While management’s periodic analysis of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses may allocate portions of the allowance for specific problem loan situations, the entire allowance is available for any loan charge-off that may occur. While the Company has historically experienced strong trends in asset quality, an increase in the provision could occur if economic conditions and factors which affect credit quality, real estate values and general business conditions worsen. Management closely monitors changes in the existing loan portfolio and analyzes potential loan opportunities carefully in order to manage credit risk. 

Other Assets: As of June 30, 2024, the total accrued interest receivable and other assets were $23,615 compared with $22,967 as of June 30, 2023. Included in other assets is an investment in a limited partnership that invests in qualified affordable housing projects that will generate tax benefits for the investors with a balance of $9,853 as of June 30, 2024 and $10,250 as of June 30, 2023. See Note 15—Affordable Tax Credit Partnership to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for information concerning the low-income housing tax credit investment.

Deposits. Total deposits increased by $20,447, or 2.1%, from $952,533 at June 30, 2023 to $972,980 at June 30, 2024. As market rates have risen, customers have chosen to move funds from savings and money market deposit products to higher yielding certificates of deposits. As of June 30, 2024, the Company maintained a favorable funding mix with 23.1% of total deposits in noninterest-bearing demand deposits, 14.6% in interest-bearing demand deposits, 36.1% in savings and money market deposits, and 26.2% in certificates and other time deposits.

The following is a schedule of average deposit amounts and average rates paid on each category for the periods included:

Uninsured deposits as of June 30, 2024 were $263,345, or 27.1% of total deposits, and includes $87,357 of uninsured public fund deposits that are fully collateralized. Uninsured deposits as of June 30, 2023 were $267,449, or 28.1% of total deposits, and includes $95,445 of uninsured public fund deposits that are fully collateralized. Uninsured deposits as of June 30, 2024 and 2023 are based on estimates and include portions of FDIC-insured deposit accounts that exceed the insurance limit of $250 thousand per separately insured depositor.

The following table summarizes time deposits issued in amounts of more than $250 thousand as of June 30, 2024 by time remaining until maturity:

Short-term Borrowings: Borrowings with original maturities of one year or less are classified as short-term and were comprised of the following:

Repurchase agreements are financing arrangements with local customers that mature daily. The Bank pledges securities as collateral for the repurchase agreements. The Federal Reserve’s Bank Term Funding Program (BTFP) was a facility established in 2023 in response to liquidity concerns within the banking industry and the program ceased making new loans on March 11, 2024. The BTFP was designed to provide additional funding to eligible depository institutions in order to help assure that banks had the ability to meet the needs of all their depositors. Under the program, eligible depository institutions could obtain loans of up to one year in length by pledging certain U.S. Treasuries, agency debt, mortgage-backed securities, and other qualifying assets as collateral. These assets were valued at par. A line of credit from another financial institution was established since the Company does not conduct operations and its primary sources of liquidity are dividend upstreams from the Bank and borrowings from outside sources. As of June 20, 2024, the available credit on the Company’s line of credit was $5,000. See Note 7—Short-Term Borrowings to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information concerning short-term borrowings.

Other Liabilities: As of June 30, 2024, the total accrued interest payable and other liabilities was $16,708 compared with $16,864 as of June 30, 2023. As of June 30, 2024, an unfunded commitment of $8,279 associated with an affordable housing tax credit investment was included in other liabilities. See Note 15—Affordable Tax Credit Partnership to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for information concerning the low-income housing tax credit investment.

Capital Resources 

Total shareholders’ equity increased by $8,201 from $55,484 as of June 30, 2023 to $63,685 at June 30, 2024. The primary reason for the increase in shareholders’ equity was because of net income of $8,580 for the 2024 fiscal year and a decrease of $1,629 in the accumulated other comprehensive loss from the mark-to-market of available-for-sale securities which were partially offset by cash dividends paid of $2,246. The total accumulated other comprehensive loss was $28,332 as of June 30, 2024 and $29,961 as of June 30, 2023. Available-for-sale securities and shareholders’ equity were impacted by rapidly rising interest rates during 2022 and 2023 causing the accumulated other comprehensive loss to increase as available-for-sale securities are marked to fair market value. As market interest rates rise, the fair value of fixed-rate securities decline with a corresponding net of tax decline recorded in the accumulated other comprehensive loss portion of equity. This unrealized loss in securities is temporary and is adjusted monthly for additional market interest rate fluctuations, principal paydowns, calls, and maturities. The fair value is expected to recover as the securities approach their maturity date or repricing date or if market yields for such securities decline. The Company has significant sources of liquidity and therefore does not expect to have to sell securities to fund growth.

For fiscal year 2024, the average equity to average total assets ratio was 5.35% and the dividend payout ratio was 26.2%. For fiscal year 2023, the average equity to average total assets ratio was 5.16% and the dividend payout ratio was 19.6%.

At June 30, 2024, management believes the Bank complied with all regulatory capital requirements. Based on the Bank’s computed regulatory capital ratios, the OCC has determined the Bank to be well capitalized under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act as of its latest exam date. The Bank’s actual and required capital amounts are disclosed in Note 12-Regulatory Matters to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management is not aware of any matters occurring subsequent to that exam that would cause the Bank’s capital category to change.

At June 30, 2024, the Company had no unconsolidated, related special purpose entities, nor did the Company engage in hedging contracts, such as interest rate swaps, which may expose the Company to liabilities greater than the amounts recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. The Company’s investment policy prohibits engaging in derivative contracts for speculative trading purposes; however, in the future, the Company may pursue certain contracts, such as interest rate swaps, to execute a sound and defensive interest rate risk management policy.

Liquidity

Management considers the asset position of the Bank to be sufficiently liquid to meet normal operating needs and conditions. The Bank’s earning assets are divided primarily between loans and available-for-sale securities, with any excess funds placed in federal funds sold or interest-bearing deposit accounts with other financial institutions.

For fiscal year 2024, net cash inflows from operating activities were $9,376, net cash inflows from financing activities were $27,038 and net cash outflows from investing activities were $30,446. Major sources of cash were a $20,447 net increase in deposits and $29,882 in cash received from sales, maturities, or principal pay downs of available-for-sale securities. Major uses of cash were a $49,268 net increase in loans and $13,624 of purchases of available-for-sale securities. Total cash and cash equivalents were $17,723 as of June 30, 2024 compared to $11,755 at June 30, 2023.

The Bank groups its loan portfolio into six major categories: commercial & industrial loans; commercial real estate loans; farmland loans; land development loans; 1-4 family residential real estate loans; and consumer loans. The Bank’s 1-4 family residential real estate loan portfolio primarily consists of fixed and variable rate mortgage loans with amortization periods up to thirty years, residential construction loans with a fixed rate interest only period of up to 18-months that converts to a fixed or variable rate loan with amortization periods of up to thirty years, and variable rate home equity lines of credit. Commercial & industrial, commercial real estate loans, and farmland loans are comprised of both variable rate notes subject to interest rate changes based on the prime rate or Treasury index, and fixed rate notes having maturities of generally not greater than twenty years. Land development loans are adjustable-rate loans with interest only periods generally up to three years. Consumer loans offered by the Bank are generally written for periods of up to seven years, based on the nature of the collateral. These may be either installment loans having regular monthly payments or demand type loans for short periods of time.

Funds not allocated to the Bank’s loan portfolio are invested in various securities having diverse maturity schedules. Most of the Bank’s securities are held in obligations of U.S. Government-sponsored entities, mortgage-backed securities, and investments in tax-exempt municipal bonds.

The Bank offers several forms of deposit products to its customers. We believe the rates offered by the Bank and the fees charged for them are competitive with others currently available in the market area. While the Bank continues to be under competitive pressures in the Bank’s market area as financial institutions attempt to attract and keep new deposits, we believe many commercial and retail customers are turning to community banks. Compared to our peers, the Company’s core deposits consist of a larger percentage of noninterest-bearing demand deposits resulting in a lower cost of funds of 2.25% for fiscal year 2024.

Jumbo time deposits (those with balances of $250 and over) were $59,233 and $46,822 at June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. These deposits are monitored closely by the Bank and typically priced on an individual basis. When these deposits are from a municipality, certain bank-owned securities are pledged to guarantee the safety of these public fund deposits as required by Ohio law.

The Company has the option to use a third-party broker to obtain deposits from outside its normal service area as an additional source of funding, however, these deposits are not relied upon as a primary source of funding. As of June 30, 2024, there were $6,004 of brokered deposits within savings deposits that were used to fund the seasonal decline of public fund deposits. There were no brokered deposits as of June 30, 2023.

To provide additional sources of liquidity, the Company has lines of credit with other financial institutions and has entered into agreements with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati (FHLB) and the Federal Reserve Discount Window. As of June 30, 2024, advances from the FHLB of Cincinnati totaled $13,709 compared with $8,776 as of June 30, 2023. As of June 30, 2024, the Bank had the ability to borrow an additional $99,814 from the FHLB of Cincinnati based on a blanket pledge of qualifying first mortgage and multi-family loans. The Company considers the FHLB of Cincinnati to be a reliable source of liquidity funding, secondary to its deposit base. In addition, at June 30, 2024, the Company had approximately $94,949 in securities unencumbered by a pledge that could be used to support additional borrowings, as needed, through the Federal Reserve discount window.

Dividends from the Bank are the primary source of funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders. However, there are statutory limits on the amount of dividends the Bank can pay without regulatory approval. Under these regulations, the amount of dividends that may be paid in any calendar year is limited to the current year’s net profits, combined with the retained net profits of the preceding two years, subject to the capital requirements described above. Additionally, the Bank may not declare or pay any dividend if, after making the dividend, the Bank would be “undercapitalized,” as defined in the federal regulations. As of June 30, 2024, the Bank could, without prior approval, declare a dividend of approximately $18,593.

Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices 

The financial statements and related data presented herein have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which require the measurement of financial position and results of operations primarily in terms of historical dollars without considering changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. Unlike most industrial companies, virtually all the assets and liabilities of the Company are monetary in nature. Therefore, as a financial institution, interest rates have a more significant impact on the Company’s performance than the effects of general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily move in the same direction or in the same magnitude as the prices of goods and services. The liquidity, maturity structure and quality of the Company’s assets and liabilities are critical to the maintenance of acceptable performance levels. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Significant Estimates

The financial condition and results of operations for the Company presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements, accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and management’s discussion and analysis are, to a large degree, dependent upon the Company’s accounting policies. The selection and application of these accounting policies involve judgments, estimates and uncertainties that are susceptible to change. The most significant accounting policies followed by the Company are presented in Note 1-Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies, along with the disclosures presented in the other financial statement notes, provide information on how significant assets and liabilities are valued in the financial statements and how those values are determined.

Management views critical accounting policies to be those which are highly dependent on subjective or complex judgments, estimates and assumptions, and where changes in those estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on the financial statements. In the event different assumptions or conditions were to prevail, and depending upon the severity of such changes, the possibility of materially different financial condition or results of operations is a reasonable likelihood. Management has identified the following as critical accounting policies:

Allowance for Credit Losses on Loans (ACL). The determination of the ACL on loans involves considerable subjective judgment and estimation by management. The ACL is a reserve established through a provision for credit losses charged to expense, which represents management’s best estimate of all expected credit losses based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The ACL calculation is performed and evaluated quarterly, and losses are estimated over the expected life of the loan. The level of the ACL is believed to be adequate to absorb all expected future losses inherent in the loan portfolio at the measurement date.

In calculating the ACL, the loan portfolio was pooled into loan segments with similar risk characteristics. The general component covers loans collectively evaluated for credit loss and is based on peer historical loss experience adjusted for current and forecasted factors.

The Company qualitatively adjusts model results for risk factors that are not inherently captured in the general component but are nonetheless relevant in assessing the expected credit losses within the loan portfolio. These adjustments may increase or decrease the estimate of expected credit losses based upon the assessed level of risk for each qualitative factor. Management's adjustments to the quantitative evaluation may be for trends in delinquencies, trends in the volume of loans, changes in underwriting standards, changes in the value of underlying collateral, the existence and effect of portfolio concentration, regulatory environment, economic conditions, Company management and the status of portfolio administration including the Company’s loan review function.

In some cases, management may determine that an individual loan exhibits unique risk characteristics which differentiate the loan from other loans within the loan segments. In such cases, the loans are evaluated for expected credit losses on an individual basis and excluded from the general component. Specific reserves in the ACL are determined by analyzing the borrower's ability to repay amounts owed, collateral deficiencies, the relative risk grade of the loan and economic conditions affecting the borrower's industry, among other things. A loan is considered to be collateral dependent when, based upon management's assessment, the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty and repayment is expected to be provided substantially through the operation or sale of the collateral. In such cases, expected credit losses are based on the fair value of the collateral at the measurement date, adjusted for estimated selling costs if satisfaction of the loan depends on the sale of the collateral. The fair value of collateral supporting collateral dependent loans is evaluated on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimates that are susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available. Although management believes its process for determining the allowance adequately considers all the potential factors that could potentially result in credit losses, the process includes subjective elements and may be susceptible to significant change. To the extent actual outcomes differ from management’s estimates, additional provisions for credit losses may be required that would adversely impact the Company’s financial condition or earnings in future periods.

Goodwill. The Company accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting. Accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recorded at their estimated fair values as of the date of acquisition with any excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value recorded as goodwill. The carrying value of goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. The evaluation for impairment involves comparing the current estimated fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value. If the current estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, no additional testing is required, and an impairment loss is not recorded. If the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value, further valuation procedures are performed that could result in impairment of goodwill being recorded. Further valuation procedures would include allocating the estimated fair value to all assets and liabilities of the reporting unit to determine an implied goodwill value. If the implied value of goodwill of a reporting unit is less than the carrying amount of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.

Management evaluated goodwill as of April 30, 2024, the measurement date, utilizing an income approach that incorporated a discounted cash flow model that involved management assumptions based upon future growth and earnings projections. The estimated fair value of the reporting unit was then compared to the current carrying value to determine if impairment had occurred. It is our opinion that, as of the measurement date, the aggregate fair value of the reporting unit exceeded the carrying value of the reporting unit. Therefore, management concluded that goodwill was not impaired. Although we believe our assumptions are reasonable, actual results may vary significantly and it is impossible to know the future impact of evolving economic conditions. If for any future period it is determined that there has been impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill balances, the Company will record a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on net income, but not risk based capital ratios.

Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities 

The following table presents, as of June 30, 2024, the Company’s significant fixed and determinable contractual obligations by payment date. The payment amounts represent those amounts contractually due to the recipient and do not include any unamortized premiums or discounts. Further discussion of the nature of each obligation is included in the referenced note to the consolidated financial statements. 

Note 13 - Commitments with Off-Balance Sheet Risk to the Consolidated Financial Statements discusses in greater detail other commitments and contingencies and the various obligations that exist under those agreements. These commitments and contingencies consist primarily of commitments to extend credit to borrowers under lines of credit.