\. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under “Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and Item 1A (Risk Factors) in this Form 10-K. The following section is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information, including our financial statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Recent Developments 

Refer to Note 3— Chapter 11 Proceedings and Emergence in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of our voluntary filing under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, our emergence therefrom and our delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq. Refer to Note 12— Debt for details regarding our Exit Note Purchase Agreement and Note 14— Commitments and Contingencies for details regarding our Service Agreements and the Trademark Licensing Agreement.

Overview

We are the market leader in microturbine energy systems based on the number of microturbines sold annually and total installed base. Generally, power purchased from the electric utility grid is less costly than power produced by distributed generation technologies in simple cycle mode. Utilities may also charge fees to interconnect to their power grids. However, when considering and including the waste heat from our microturbine (CHP and CCHP) the economic benefit improves significantly. Further, our highly efficient, low emission, resilient technology can produce thermal energy at a lower carbon footprint. These benefits can be especially realized when fuel costs are low, where the costs of connecting to the grid may be high or impractical (such as remote power applications or new grid services need to be provided), where reliability and power quality are of critical importance, or in situations where peak shaving could be economically advantageous because of highly variable electricity prices. Our microturbines are an inverter-based technology and can be interconnected to other distributed energy resources to form “microgrids” (also called “distribution networks”) located within a specific geographic area and provide power to a group of buildings. Because our microturbines can provide a reliable source of power and can operate on multiple fuel sources, management believes they help solve the “Energy Trilemma” of resiliency, sustainability and affordability. Management also believes our products and services offer a level of flexibility not currently offered by other technologies such as reciprocating engines. We are currently exploring energy conversion options for the smaller end of the power spectrum.

For Fiscal 2024, net revenue was $91.2 million, a 23% increase from the prior year. The increase was led by product and accessories revenue, which were up 40% to $49.1 million primarily due to an increase in product sales. Cost of goods sold totaled $76.9 million and delivered $14.3 million of gross profit in Fiscal 2024. Gross profit increased from $9.1 million at Fiscal 2023, primarily due to the shift of sales mix to our higher margin rental business, higher product and parts pricing, higher sales volume, greater cost absorption and product mix.

During Fiscal 2024, we had net income of $7.4 million and our basic and diluted net income per share was $0.39, compared to a $24.5 million loss and $1.43 net loss per share, respectively, in Fiscal 2023. The $31.9 million increase to net income during Fiscal 2024 was primarily due to the impact of the Chapter 11 reorganization, inclusive of a gain on settlement of debt upon emergence from Chapter 11 on December 7, 2023 of $35.3 million. See Note 3— Chapter 11 Proceedings and Emergence in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our outstanding indebtedness and the post emergence financing.

In the energy efficiency market, we continue to expand our market presence in hotels, office buildings, hospitals, retail and industrial applications globally. The renewable energy market is fueled by landfill gas, biodiesel and biogas from sources such as food processing, agricultural waste and livestock manure. Our product sales in the oil and gas and other natural resources market is driven by our microturbines’ reliability, emissions profile and ease of installation. Given the volatility of the oil and gas market, our business strategy is to ensure diversification by also targeting projects within the energy efficiency and renewable energy markets.

We continue to focus on improving our products based on customer input, building brand awareness and new channels to market by developing a diversified network of strategic distribution partners. Our focus is on products and solutions that provide near term opportunities to drive repeatable business rather than discrete projects for niche markets. In addition, management closely monitors operating expenses and strives to improve manufacturing efficiencies while simultaneously lowering direct material costs and increasing average selling prices. The key drivers to our success are revenue growth, higher average selling prices, lower direct material costs, positive new order flow, reduced cash usage and expansion of the Energy-as-a-Service (“EaaS”) business.

An overview of our direction, targets and key initiatives are as follows:

Focus on Vertical Markets. Within the distributed generation markets that we serve, we focus on vertical markets that we identify as having the greatest near-term potential. In our primary products and applications (energy efficiency, natural resources, renewable energy, critical power supply, microgrid and transportation products), we identify specific targeted vertical market segments. Within each of these segments, we identify what we believe to be the critical factors to success and base our plans on those factors. Given the volatility of the oil and gas market, we have refocused our business strategy to target projects within the energy efficiency and renewable energy markets.

The following table summarizes our percentage or product revenues by vertical markets for which we had product revenues for the periods presented:

Energy Efficiency—CHP/CCHP

Energy efficiency refers to the proper utilization of both electrical and thermal energies in the power production process. In such applications, our microturbines are able to maximize the availability of usable energy to provide a significant economic advantage to customers while reducing their on-site emissions. CHP and CCHP can improve site economics by capturing the waste heat created from a single combustion process to increase the efficiency of the total system, from approximately 30% to approximately 85% for hot water and chilled water to as much as 90% or more for some steam and direct drying applications. Compared with more traditional, independent generation sources, the increase in operational efficiency also reduces greenhouse gas emissions through the displacement of other separate systems, which can also reduce operating costs and industrial waste.

Natural Resources—Crude Oil, Natural Gas, Shale Gas & Mining

Our microturbines are installed in the natural resource market for use in both onshore and offshore applications, including oil and gas exploration, production, and at compression and transmission sites as a highly efficient and reliable source of power. In some cases, these oil and gas or mining operations have no electric utility grid and rely solely on power generated on-site. There are numerous locations, on a global scale, where the drilling, production, compression and transportation of natural resources and other extraction and production processes create fuel byproducts, which are traditionally burned or released into the atmosphere. Our microturbines can turn these fuel byproducts, such as flare gas, or associated gas, into a useable fuel to provide prime power to these sites.

Renewable Energy

There is a growing transition to renewable energy sources and technologies on a global scale. Our microturbines run efficiently on renewable fuels such as methane and other biogases from landfills, wastewater treatment facilities and renewable natural gas. They also run efficiently on other small biogas applications like food processing plants, livestock farms and agricultural green waste operations. Microturbines can burn these renewable fuels with minimal emissions, thereby, in some cases, avoiding the imposition of penalties incurred for pollution while simultaneously producing electricity from this “free” renewable fuel source for use at the site or in the surrounding areas. Our microturbines have demonstrated effectiveness in these smaller applications and may outperform conventional combustion engines in some situations, including when the gas contains a high amount of sulfur, as the sulfur can contaminate combustion engines’ lube oil, leading to equipment breakdowns and higher lifecycle costs.

Microgrid

Microgrid is a group of interconnected loads and distributed energy resources that acts as a single controllable energy entity with respect to the grid. Distributed energy resources typically include other dual-mode microturbines, reciprocating engines, solar photovoltaic (PV), wind turbines, fuel cells and battery storage. Microgrids can be connected to larger electricity grids; however, in the event of a widespread outage, the microgrid will disconnect from the main grid and continue to operate independently to maintain the electricity supply to the homes and businesses that are connected to the microgrid’s electricity network. Our microturbines have the ability to meet the needs of microgrid end-users by lowering their overall cost to operate and by providing a versatile dispatchable technology that is fuel flexible and scalable enough to fit a wide variety of applications. We have seen continued development in the microgrid market segment.

Transportation

Our technology can also be used to support Electric Vehicle (“EV”) market by providing power solutions to charge vehicles. Our products can fill a void in the EV market for vehicle charging capacity and charging convenience. Our customers have applied our products in EV applications for fleets and remote location charging stations. We are continuing to pursue global EV charging opportunities to fill the demand for power in this market segment. 

Backlog

Net product orders were approximately $20.1 million and $35.5 million for Fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively. Ending backlog was approximately $14.2 million at March 31, 2024 compared to $42.8 million at March 31, 2023. The book-to-bill ratio was 0.4:2 and 1.1:1 for Fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively. Book-to-bill ratio is the ratio of new orders we received to units shipped and billed during a period.

A portion of our backlog is concentrated in the oil and gas market, which may impact the overall timing of shipments or the conversion of backlog to revenue. The timing of the backlog is based on the requirement date indicated by our customers. However, based on historical experience, management expects that a significant portion of our backlog may not be shipped within the next 18 months. Additionally, the timing of shipments is subject to change based on several variables (including customer deposits, payments, availability of credit and customer delivery schedule changes), most of which are not in our control and can affect the timing of our revenue. As a result, management believes the book-to-bill ratio demonstrates the current demand for our products in the given period.

We offer new and remanufactured parts through our global distribution network. Service revenue was approximately 22% and 29% of total revenue in Fiscal 2024 and Fiscal 2023, respectively.

​

We have continued to develop our new hydrogen products. In March 2022, we released a commercially available hydrogen-based combined heat and power (CHP) product, which can safely run on a 30% hydrogen-70% natural gas mix. In continuing these efforts, we are testing a 100% hydrogen gas combustion system through our research and development partnership with Argonne National Laboratory.

Our manufacturing designs include the use of conventional technology, which has been proven in high- volume automotive and turbocharger production for many years. Many components used in the manufacture of our products are readily fabricated from commonly available raw materials or off-the-shelf items available from multiple supply sources; however, certain items are custom made to meet our specifications and require longer lead times. We believe that in most cases, adequate capacity exists at our suppliers and that alternative sources of supply are available or could be developed within a reasonable period of time; however, it may be more challenging to transition to another supplier from single source suppliers with long lead times. We regularly reassess the adequacy and abilities of our suppliers to meet our future needs.

We believe that effective execution in each of these key areas will be necessary to leverage our promising technology and early market leadership into achieving positive cash flow with growing market presence and improving financial performance.

We currently occupy warehouse and office space in Van Nuys, California with a production capacity of approximately 2,000 units per year, depending on product mix. 

Critical Accounting Estimates

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses and related disclosures of contingent liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including but not limited to those related to credit losses, inventories, warranty obligations, redeemable noncontrolling interests valuations and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.

Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements.

Results of Operations

Year Ended March 31, 2024 Compared to Year Ended March 31, 2023

The following table summarizes our revenue by geographic markets (in millions):

Revenue. Revenue for Fiscal 2024 increased $17.3 million, or 23%, to $91.2 million from $73.9 million for Fiscal 2023. The change in revenue for Fiscal 2024 compared to Fiscal 2023 included increases in revenue of $8.9 million from the United States and Canadian markets, $6.7 million in the European market, $3.0 million from the Latin American markets and $1.8 million from the Asian and Australian markets. These overall increases in revenue were offset by decreases in revenue of $2.9 million from the Russian market and $0.2 million from the Middle East and African markets. The increases in the United States and Canada, Europe, Latin America and Asia and Australia were primarily attributable to an increase in our EaaS long-term rental services and product deliveries for projects during the year ended March 31, 2024. The decrease in Russia was a result of United States sanctions and the decrease in the Middle East and Africa was primarily attributable to decreases in product shipments into the energy efficiency vertical markets compared to the same period last year.

The following table summarizes our revenue (revenue amounts in millions):

For Fiscal 2024, revenue from microturbine products and accessories increased $14.1 million, or 40%, to $49.1 million from $35.0 million for Fiscal 2023. The $14.1 million increase was primarily driven by an increase in megawatts shipped during the year ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period last year. Megawatts shipped were 40.5 megawatts and 29.0 megawatts during the year ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Average revenue per megawatt shipped was approximately $1.2 million and $1.1 million during the year ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, illustrating the effect of previously announced Product price increases. The timing of shipments is variable 

and based on several factors (including customer deposits, payments, availability of credit and delivery schedule changes), most of which are not within our control and can affect the timing of revenue recognition.

Parts, service and rentals revenue (which are part of our EaaS business line and includes revenue from our parts shipments, factory protection plan (“FPP”) contracts, rentals, Distributor Support Subscription fees, and other service revenue) for Fiscal 2024 increased $3.2 million, or 8%, to $42.1 million from $38.9 million for Fiscal 2023. The $3.2 million increase was driven by an increase in rental revenue as a result of our EaaS business plan, and an increase in revenue from our FPP contracts, partially offset by lower engineering service revenue and spare parts. Refer to Note 14— Commitments and Contingencies— Related Party Transactions, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to Reorganized PrivateCo’s retained assets and distributor support services business in connection with the Company’s emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases.

Sales to Cal Microturbine and E-Finity Distributed Generation (“E-Finity”) accounted for 16% and 13%, respectively, of our revenue for Fiscal 2024. Sales to E-Finity and RSP Systems accounted for 12% and 11%, respectively, of our revenue for Fiscal 2023. 

Gross Profit. Cost of goods sold includes direct material costs, production and service center labor and overhead, inventory charges and provision for estimated product warranty expenses. Gross profit was approximately $14.3 million, or 16% of revenue, for Fiscal 2024, compared to gross profit of $9.1 million, or 12% of revenue, for Fiscal 2023. The increase during Fiscal 2024 compared to Fiscal 2023 was primarily the result of an increase in product pricing and increased revenue from our higher margin rental business and lower inventory charges, partially offset by higher production and service center labor and overhead expense. Starting in January 2023, we increased our sales prices and negotiated with vendors to reduce material costs.

Production and service center labor and overhead expense increased $2.1 million during Fiscal 2024 compared to Fiscal 2023 primarily because of increases of approximately $2.9 million in depreciation and rent expense related to our rental business, partially offset by decreases of $0.8 million in freight expense and $0.5 million in supplies expense.

The following table summarizes our gross profit (in millions except percentages):

The improvement of $2.7 million in product and accessories gross profit during Fiscal 2024 compared to Fiscal 2023 was primarily due to higher product pricing, improved cost absorption and product mix in Fiscal 2024. 

Product and accessories gross margin as a percentage of product and accessories revenue improved to % during Fiscal 2024 from % during Fiscal 2023, primarily due to higher margin product revenue in Fiscal 2024. Parts, service and rentals gross margin as a percentage of parts, service and rentals revenue increased to 39% for Fiscal 2024 compared to 36% for Fiscal 2023 primarily due to lower overhead costs and increased higher margin rental business in Fiscal 2024.

Research and Development (“R&D”) Expenses. R&D expenses for Fiscal 2024 and 2023 was $2.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively. 

Selling, General and Administrative (“SG&A”) Expenses. SG&A expenses for Fiscal 2024 increased $7.0 million to $32.2 million from $25.1 million for Fiscal 2023. The net increase in SG&A expenses was primarily as a result 

of increases of approximately $7.7 million in legal fees, $2.4 million in accounting fees, $1.1 million in consulting expenses incurred primarily for restatement activities and $1.1 million in stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by decreases of $3.8 million of net credit loss expense, $0.7 million in facility costs, $0.3 million in travel related costs, and $0.2 million in marketing costs.

Interest Expense. Interest expense for Fiscal 2024 decreased to $5.5 million from $6.2 million in Fiscal 2023. The decrease in interest expense was primarily due to a lower average debt balance during Fiscal 2024 due to restructuring compared to the $51.0 million pre-petition notes during Fiscal 2023. See Liquidity and Capital Resources below for additional discussion on our interest expense.

Income Tax Provision. Income tax expense increased from $7,000 during Fiscal 2023 to $14,000 during Fiscal 2024. Income tax expense incurred was related to state taxes. The effective income tax rate of 0.19% differs from the federal and state blended rate primarily as a result of maintaining a full valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets.

At March 31, 2024, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $0.6 million and $0.2 million, respectively, which may be utilized to reduce future taxable income, subject to any limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. We provided a valuation allowance for 100% of our net deferred tax asset of $0.1 million at March 31, 2024 as the realization of the benefits of these favorable tax attributes in future income tax returns is not deemed more likely than not. Similarly, at March 31, 2023, the net deferred tax asset had a 100% valuation allowance.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Flows

Our cash requirements depend on many factors, including the execution of our business strategy and plan. Our cash balance decreased $10.8 million during Fiscal 2024, compared to a decrease of $9.7 million during Fiscal 2023. The decrease in cash during Fiscal 2024 was primarily due to cash used in operating activities, partially offset by net cash provided by financing activities and a decrease in cash used in investing activities. 

Operating Activities During Fiscal 2024, net cash used by operating activities was $27.7 million, consisting of net income for the period of $7.4 million, offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $12.5 million and non-cash adjustments (primarily representing non-cash reorganization items, net, depreciation and amortization, non-cash lease expense, stock-based compensation expense and paid-in-kind interest expense) of $22.5 million. During Fiscal 2023, net cash used by operating activities was $7.9 million, consisting of a net loss for the period of $24.5 million and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $5.3 million, partially offset by non-cash adjustments (primarily representing provision for credit loss expense, depreciation and amortization, non-cash lease expense and stock-based compensation expense) of $11.3 million.

The following is a summary of the significant sources (uses) of cash from operating activities (in thousands):

The change in non-cash operating activities during Fiscal 2024, compared to Fiscal 2023 was primarily driven by the non-cash reorganization items, net, which included our gain on debt extinguishment and our provision for credit loss expense, partially offset by increases in non-cash lease expenses, paid-in-kind interest expense and stock-based compensation expense. The change in accounts receivable was primarily the result of delayed collections in Fiscal 2024, compared to Fiscal 2023. The change in inventory compared to Fiscal 2023 was primarily the result of a decrease in finished goods during Fiscal 2024. The change in accounts payable and accrued expenses was primarily due to higher payments to vendors during Fiscal 2024, compared to Fiscal 2023. The change in other operating assets and liabilities during Fiscal 2024, compared to Fiscal 2023, was primarily driven by the decreases in our deferred revenue attributable to customer deposits, FPP contracts and DSS program. 

Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $4.7 million and $8.2 million during Fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, which the decrease was primarily due to fewer additions to our rental fleet during Fiscal 2024.

Financing Activities During Fiscal 2024, we generated approximately $21.6 million in cash from financing activities compared to cash generated during Fiscal 2023 of approximately $6.4 million. The funds generated from financing activities during Fiscal 2024 were primarily the result of $12.0 million of funding under the DIP facility, $7.0 million of funding under the Exit Facility, net of issuance fees of $0.2 million and $3.0 million received from the issuance of additional pre-petition senior secured notes under the A&R Note Purchase Agreement. See Note 3— Chapter 11 Proceedings and Emergence in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 12— Debt for further discussion of the outstanding debt and post emergence financing. The funds generated from financing activities during Fiscal 2023 were primarily the result of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock and warrants of $7.3 million, partially offset by $0.8 million in repayments of lease obligations.

Debt Refer to Note 12— Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to our notes.

Lease Commitments Refer to Note 13— Leases in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to our leases.

Going Concern In connection with preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2024, management evaluated whether there were conditions and events, considered in the aggregate, that raised substantial doubt about our ability to meet our obligations as they became due for the next twelve months from the date of issuance of our Fiscal 2024 consolidated financial statements. As of March 31, 2024, we had cash of $2.1 million and a working capital deficit of $38.5 million. We incurred a loss from operations of $20.4 million and used cash from operating activities of $27.7 million during the Fiscal 2024.

Depending on the timing of our future sales and collection of related receivables, managing inventory costs and the timing of inventory purchases and deliveries required to fulfill the backlog, our future working capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. The amount of capital that we will need in the future to fund our operations will require us to achieve significantly increased sales volume, which is dependent on many factors, including:

Management evaluated these conditions in relation to our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. Our ability to continue current operations and to execute on management’s plan is dependent on our ability to generate cash flows. 

The Company has assessed its position and hired a new CEO, is refocusing its marketing efforts, and is expanding the professional staff to focus on market development for its products. The success of these efforts is uncertain and may not result in improvement in the liquidity position.

On September 28, 2023, we filed for a prepackaged financial restructuring with our Senior Lender, Goldman Sachs under the U.S. Chapter 11 Bankruptcy laws. We emerged from Bankruptcy on December 7, 2023, and effected a financial and organizational restructuring. See Note 3— Chapter 11 Proceedings and Emergence in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

In spite of these efforts and given our current cash position, lack of liquidity, limits to accessing capital and debt funding options, and current economic and market risks, there is substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern and our ability to meet our financial obligations as they become due over the next twelve months from the date of issuance of our financial statements as of, and for the period ended March 31, 2024.

Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards

Refer to Note 2— Basis of Presentation, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Going Concern in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting standards.