. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Certain statements in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Plan of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates” and similar expressions identify such forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s analysis only as of the date hereof. You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our financial statements, which are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect actual results or changes in factors or assumptions affecting forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements” and “Summary of Risk Factors” contained in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for more information.

Overview

Our contemplated business plan is to find a partner or acquisition target to merge with who will utilize our intellectual property. As of this filing, we have not entered into any agreements with any such partner or acquisition targets.

Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Please see the notes to our Financial Statements for information about our Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements.

Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. 

Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2023, Compared to the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2022

During the year ended June 30, 2023, the Company’s net loss increased by $255,041 compared to the prior year ended June 30, 2022, primarily as a result of the following:

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We are out of cash, and for the past two years we have been relying on loans from our current investors. We currently have approximately $7,000,000 in outstanding debt. As reflected in the Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K, management has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, unless we can raise the required capital or generate material revenue to fund our operations. We do not believe that we will be able to raise any capital until such time as we conduct a business combination.

Subject to Nevada law, the Company (and its shareholders and subsidiaries) are not restricted in transferring equity interests (subject to the securities laws) or approving a business combination. The Company’s Series B Preferred Stock (“Series B”) Certificate of Designation restricts the Company’s ability to issue “senior” securities to the Series B. The Company has no intention of issuing securities that have liquidation rights greater than the Series B. 

Net Cash used by Operating Activities:

The Company used $48,259 in cash in operating activities which were primarily professional fees associated with the form 10 and catching up on its financial reporting.

Cash Used in Investing Activities:

No cash was used in investing activities.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities:

The company received $54,500 in cash from promissory notes and repaid $16,100 in loans.