. | MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
---|--- 

This analysis of our results of operations should be read in conjunction with the accompanying financial statements, including notes thereto, contained in Item 8 of this Report. This Report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Statements that are predictive in nature and that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions are forward-looking statements. Although we believe that these statements are based upon reasonable expectations, we can give no assurance that projections will be achieved. Please refer to the discussion of forward-looking statements included in Part I of this Report.

Overview

About RxAir

RxAir promotes a healthy lifestyle through the use of its innovative, patented ViraTech air purification technology, thereby improving the quality of life of each and every customer. Independently tested by EPA- and FDA-certified laboratories, the RxAir has been proven to destroy greater than 99% of bacteria and viruses and reduce concentrations of odors and VOCs. The RxAir uses high-intensity germicidal UV lamps that destroy bacteria and viruses instead of just trapping them, setting it apart from ordinary air filtration units. RxAir® and ViraTech® are registered trademarks of Vystar Corp. For more information, visit http://www.RxAir.com.

The Company’s RxAir product line use 48 inches of high-intensity germicidal UV lamps that destroy bacteria, viruses and other germs instead of just trapping them, setting it apart from ordinary air filtration units. RxAir is one of the few UV air purifiers that have been proven in independent EPA- and FDA- certified testing laboratories to destroy on the first pass 99.6% of harmful airborne viruses and bacteria. In addition to inactivating airborne viruses that cause influenza (flu) and colds, RxAir’s device disarms the airborne pathogens that cause MRSA (staph), strep (whooping cough), tuberculosis (TB), measles, pneumonia and a myriad of other antibiotic-resistant and viral infections.

The RxAir product line includes:

| ● | RxAir™ Residential Filterless Air Purifier 
---|---|--- 
| | 
| ● | RX400™ FDA cleared Class II Filterless Air Purifier 
| | 
| ● | RX800™ FDA cleared Class II Filterless Air Purifier 
| | 
| ● | RX3000™ Commercial FDA cleared Class II Air Purifier 

Vystar produces the RxAir product line with a world-class manufacturer and an expert U.S. engineer with a full understanding of the RxAir technology. Vystar sells RxAir residential and commercial units via distributors, online and through retail channels. Vystar has assembled a distribution network for sales of RX400 and RX800, our newest unit to the healthcare and medical markets. Vystar also sells the ViraTec replacement cartridge for approximately 25,000 units that have been previously sold. The RX3000 our largest unit, has been reengineered and samples of those units are in stock. We are not producing more of those at this time but plan to restart production during 2024. We have engineered the RX300 a smaller version of our unit and hope to be in production with that unit in 2024. The Company also hopes to have an even smaller unit designed during 2024 for automobiles and refrigerators with USB charging which is currently in the early stages of development and has not been engineered or prototyped.

About Rotmans

Rotmans, formerly the largest furniture and flooring store in New England and one of the largest independent furniture retailers in the U.S., encompassed over 170,000 square feet in Worcester, Mass., was founded and had been under the leadership of the Rotman family for the past 50 years. Rotmans enabled Vystar to capitalize on the infrastructure already in place for accounting, retail sales facilities and staff, customer service, warehousing, and delivery. Steven Rotman and a group of dedicated employees provided continuity of management and customer-focused values for the Company until closure in late December 2022.

About Vytex

Vytex is a multi-patented latex raw material in which the allergy causing proteins are reduced to a level that falls at or below detection based on ASTM approved test methods. Vytex has been available as a raw material commercially for fourteen years and through that time has a group of manufacturers who use it in end products such as electrical gloves, condoms, adhesives, etc. Ironically, most use Vytex as it’s better for their manufacturing process as an easier to use raw material and not for protein properties. As of mid-2020 Vystar and the Indian Rubber Manufacturers Research Association’s (“IRMRA”) had been actively collaborating to develop viscoelastic deproteinized natural rubber (DPNR) variants having properties for expanding applications in specific new arenas such as green tires, biodegradable and other unique bioelastoplast product lines that desire a new approach. Additionally, this research, while slowed by the COVID-19 pandemic, showed attributes with extra low ammonia offerings that are desired.

Towards the end of 2020, Vystar entered into a Market Development and Distribution Agreement with Corrie MacColl, Ltd. (“CMC Global”) to produce, develop and manage the Vytex product and supply lines. This agreement allows Vystar to expand the market for its Natural Rubber Latex products and has garnered much attention across a broad range of industries including liquid Vytex as well as the newly developed dry rubber Vytex. As of the date of this report, CMC Global has provided numerous opportunities that are in a trial basis or moving towards manufacturing trials in industries that use a significant amount of natural rubber latex, hence Vytex that now includes production size trial runs in a large dipped product consumer line starting late 2022. As of January 2023, Vytex is now in full R&D phase for a large corporation focused on replacing a petrochemical based binder with a water-based coating using Vytex. As the move to use sustainable materials grows so does interest in Vytex through Corrie MacColl. Additionally, Vystar now has a testing supply of Vytex dry rubber for larger trials. The success of early trials and the shipping crisis has led to broader spectrum of manufacturers combining the potential of Cameroon production with strategically placed contract manufacturers based on geographical needs including the North American market. Also, Vystar research has shown great strides in specializing liquid Vytex (ultra-low protein latex, ULPL) to meet the immediate needs of customers such as low or no nitrosamine and others (discussed in the presentation below available in the pdf) and additional patents have been proposed to cover these findings. Research into dry rubber continues at a moderate pace as tire companies seek out alternatives to synthetics.

In Halcyon Agri (owner of CMC Global), 2020 Corporate Report: “Our group-wide innovation capabilities have enabled us to engage in innovative commercial partnerships. Corrie MacColl is collaborating with Vystar to transform our Cameroon plantation output into ultra-pure latex with stronger molecular bond that offers enhanced strength, durability, and flexibility in the end products. This is achieved by removing non-rubber components and 99.85% of the proteins.” CMC Global continues to work with the facility at Cameroon to produce Vytex at their owned processing plant.

Vytex researcher Dr. Ranjit Matthan and CMC Global Director John Heath presented at The International Latex Conference which was held virtually July 20 to 22, 2021 and offered a plenary session entitled “Innovations and Sustainability in Natural Rubber Latex - The New Paradigm.” The presentation discussed the dramatic effect the COVID-19 pandemic has had on the natural rubber supply chain, and how the industry is reacting the new economic circumstances; including strategy and policy shifts in supply chain management and restoring greater geographic diversification of latex processing and product manufacturing. The R&D association with IRMRA promises quicker laboratory and field-based testing and evaluations downstream. At Vystar, the recalibrated sustainability programme (FSC, nitrosamines & ammonia free, ultralow proteins, no SVHC and green carbon neutrality) emphasize certifications with Corrie MacColl market reach facilitating faster rollouts. Nontraditional/non Hevea brasiliensis based production efforts are likely to continue to face new penetration and high cost-benefit acceptance challenges in this decade. A PDF of the full presentation is available on vytex.com.

Additionally, in August 2021, Dr. Matthan presented new data to the Automotive Tyre Manufacturers’ Association including Vytex dry rubber.

Vystar has expanded Vytex into the consumer arena with an introduction into the bedding category, aligning with key foam manufacturers to create mattresses, mattress toppers and pillows. Through this effort, Vystar can bring the benefits of great sleep and a more natural product to the public.

Management Objectives

The COVID-19 pandemic has raised awareness of airborne disease transmission and consumers’ desire to reduce their risk of infection through the use of air purifiers. The Company has pivoted its resources to meeting the demand for air purifiers by adding additional distributors to the RxAir sales network and contracting the development of the next generation RxAir Ultraviolet-C light air purifiers.

Vystar and the Indian Rubber Manufacturers Research Association’s (“IRMRA”) are actively collaborating to develop viscoelastic deproteinized natural rubber (“DPNR”) variants having properties for expanding applications in specific new arenas such as green tires, biodegradable and other unique bioelastoplast product lines that desire a new approach.

Vystar entered into a Market Development and Distribution Agreement with Corrie MacColl to produce, develop and manage the Vytex product and supply lines. This agreement allows Vystar to expand the market for its Natural Rubber Latex products.

Vystar has expanded Vytex into the consumer arena with an introduction into the bedding category, aligning with key foam manufacturers to create mattresses, mattress toppers and pillows. Through this effort, Vystar can bring the benefits of great sleep and a more natural product to the public.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. As such, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. By their nature, these estimates and judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Our management reviews its estimates on an on-going basis. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience, knowledge of current conditions and our understanding of what we believe to be reasonable that might occur in the future considering available information. Actual results may differ from these estimates, and material effects on our operating results and financial position may result.

We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements.

Fair Value Inputs Related to Share-based and Other Equity Compensation

Generally accepted accounting principles require all share-based payments, including grants of employee stock options, stock grants and warrants, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. We compute the value of option awards granted by utilizing the Black-Scholes valuation model based upon their expected lives, expected volatility, expected dividend yield, and the risk-free interest rate. The value of the awards is then straight-line expensed over the service period of the awards. Issuance in shares of common stock is valued using the closing market price on the measurement date.

Inventories

Inventories include those costs directly attributable to the product before sale. Inventories consist primarily of RxAir purifiers, foam toppers and pillows and are carried at net realizable value, which is defined as selling price less cost of completion, disposal and transportation. The Company evaluates the need to record write-downs for inventories on a regular basis. Approximate consideration is given to obsolescence, slow-moving and other factors in evaluating net realizable values. Inventories not expected to be sold within 12 months are classified as long-term.

Revenue

We recognize revenue when we satisfy a performance obligation in a contract by transferring control over a product to a customer when product is shipped based on fulfillment by the Company. The Company considers fulfillment when it passes all liability at the point of shipping through third party carriers. Consideration is typically paid prior to shipment via credit card or check when our products are sold direct to consumers, which is typically within a 1 to 2 days or approximately 30 days from the time control is transferred when sold to wholesalers, distributors and retailers. Taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction, that are collected by us from a customer, are excluded from revenue. Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of revenue. We assess our estimates of expected returns at each financial reporting date.

Valuation and Impairment of Intangible and Long-Lived Assets

We perform an impairment assessment of intangible assets including goodwill annually or more frequently as warranted by events or changes in circumstances. We review long-lived assets such as property and equipment for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. If the total of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying value of the assets, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the long-lived assets. The Company recorded a loss on impairment in 2022 of $297,723 related to our assessment of the UV Flu intangible assets.

Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments

The Company evaluates stock options, stock warrants, notes payable or other contracts to determine if those contracts or embedded components of those contracts qualify as derivatives to be separately accounted for under the relevant sections of ASC 815-40, Derivative Instruments and Hedging: Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity. The result of this accounting treatment could be that the fair value of a financial instrument is classified as a derivative instrument and is marked-to-market at each balance sheet date and recorded as a liability. In the event that the fair value is recorded as a liability, the change in fair value is recorded in the statement of operations as other income or other expense. Upon conversion or exercise of a derivative instrument, the instrument is marked to fair value at the conversion date and then that fair value is reclassified to equity. Financial instruments that are initially classified as equity that become subject to reclassification under ASC 815-40 are reclassified to a liability account at the fair value of the instrument on the reclassification date.

Leases

The Company has adopted and implemented ASC 842, Leases, where Rotmans recognized right-of use assets and lease liabilities. For leases in which the acquiree is a lessee, the Company measured the lease liability at the present value of the remaining lease payments, as if the acquired lease were a new lease at the acquisition date. The Company measured the right-of-use asset at the same amount as the lease liability as adjusted to reflect favorable and unfavorable terms of the lease when compared with market terms.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Year ended December 31, 2023 compared to year ended December 31, 2022

Revenues

Consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 were $525,883 and $116,533, respectively, for an increase of $409,350 or 351.3%. The increase in revenues from operations was principally due to decreased allowances and shipping to distributors.

Consolidated gross profit (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 was $384,583 and ($388,692), respectively, for an increase of $773,275 or 198.9%. Consolidated cost of revenue for year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 was $141,300 and $505,225, respectively, a decrease of $363,925 or 72.0%. The increase in gross profit and decrease in cost of revenue was primarily due to decreased inventory and sales allowances. Our allowances are conservatively stated for our inventory valuation.

Operating Expenses

The Company’s operating expenses consist primarily of compensation and support costs for management, sales and administrative staff, and for other general and administrative costs, including professional fees related to accounting, finance, and legal services as well as other operating expenses such as advertising and consulting. The Company’s consolidated operating expenses was $1,924,552 and $2,558,708 for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, for a decrease of $634,156 or 24.8%. The decrease in operating expenses was largely due to an impairment loss of $444,815 in 2022.

Other Income (Expense)

Other income (expense), net for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 was $543,252 and ($496,127), respectively, for a decrease of $1,039,379 or 209.5%. Decreases in other expense in 2023 included a net gain on settlement of debt, net of $596,670 as compared to a loss on settlement of $2,060,123 in 2022, and a reduction of interest expense of $160,686 and change in fair value of derivative liabilities of $1,778,100.

Discontinued Operations

Loss from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 was $7,322,678 and $887,628, respectively, for an increase of $6,435,050 or 725%. The increase was attributable to the final winding down of operations in 2023.

Net Loss

Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 was $8,319,395 and $4,331,155, respectively, for an increase in net loss of $3,988,240 or 92.1%. Net loss in 2023 and 2022 includes net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest of $3,705,525 and $372,803, respectively.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The Company’s financial statements are prepared using the accrual method of accounting in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities in the normal course of business. However, we have incurred significant losses and experienced negative cash flow since inception. At December 31, 2023, the Company had cash of $35,442 and a deficit in working capital of $5,422,880. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company had a net loss of $8,319,395 and an accumulated deficit of $60,612,738. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company had a net loss of $4,331,155 and the accumulated deficit amounted to $55,368,868. We use working capital to finance our ongoing operations, and since those operations do not currently cover all of our operating costs, managing working capital is essential to our Company’s future success. Because of this history of losses and financial condition, there is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

Net cash used in operating activities was $442,662 for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to $515,523 for the year ended December 31, 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2023, cash used in operations was primarily due to the net loss for the year of $8,319,395 net of non-cash related add-back of share-based compensation, depreciation, amortization, impairment loss and gain on settlement of debt, net.

The Company had cash flows provided by investing activities from discontinued operations of $592,483 during the year ended December 31, 2023 for sales of property and equipment. There were no investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2022.

Net cash used in financing activities was $235,066 during the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to cash provided of $499,947 during the year ended December 31, 2022. During 2023, cash was provided from the proceeds of related party advances of $152,434 and used in discontinued operations of $387,500. During 2022, cash was provided from the proceeds of related party advances of $266,541 and issuance of preferred stock of $85,000.

A successful transition to profitable operations is dependent upon obtaining sufficient financing to fund the Company’s planned expenses and achieving a level of revenue adequate to support the Company’s cost structure. Management plans to finance future operations using cash on hand, as well as increased revenue from RxAir air purifier sales and Vytex license fees, that now also include the Company’s association with foam cores made from Vytex used in mattresses, mattress toppers and pillows.

There can be no assurances that we will be able to achieve projected levels of revenue in 2024 and beyond. If we are not able to achieve projected revenue and obtain alternate additional financing of equity or debt, we would need to significantly curtail or reorient operations during 2024, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business objectives and as a result, may require the Company to file for bankruptcy or cease operations. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or amounts classified as liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be forced to take any such actions.

Our future expenditures will depend on numerous factors, including: the rate at which we can introduce RxAir products and license Vytex NRL raw material and the foam cores made from Vytex to manufacturers and subsequently retailers; the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, along with market acceptance of our products, and services and competing technological developments. As we expand our activities and operations, our cash requirements are expected to increase at a rate consistent with revenue growth after we achieve sustained revenue generation.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Per Steven Rotman’s Employment agreement dated July 22, 2019, as amended, he is to be paid $125,000 per year in cash, $10,417 per month in shares based on a 20-day average price at a 50% discount to market, $5,000 per month in cash for expenses as well as access to a Company provided vehicle and health and life insurance. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company expensed approximately $519,000 related to this employment agreement. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had a stock subscription payable balance of $952,593, or approximately 60,556,000 shares to be issued in the future, $243,155 of reimbursable expenses payable and $81,482 of unpaid salary. During the year ended December 31, 2023, Mr. Rotman waived his right to unpaid salary of $34,921. Mr. Rotman’s Employment agreement was terminated upon his resignation on December 21, 2023.

Blue Oar Consulting, Inc. (“Blue Oar”) provides business consulting services to the Company. This entity is owned by Gregory Rotman, who is the son of the Company’s CEO, Steven Rotman. Blue Oar provides business consulting services to the Company. In exchange for such services, the Company has entered into a consulting agreement with the related party entity. Per the consulting agreement, Blue Oar is to be paid $15,000 per month in cash for expenses, and $12,500 per month to be paid in shares based on a 20-day average at a 50% discount to market. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company expensed approximately $580,000 related to the consulting agreement. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had a stock subscription payable balance of $1,030,112, or approximately 72,612,000 shares to be issued in the future and $225,000 of consulting expenses in accounts payable.

Dr. Bryan Stone receives a $25 per unit commission for RxAir units sold to a specific customer. During the year ended December 31, 2023, commissions of $1,950 were paid to Dr. Stone.