\. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

This section of the quarterly report includes a number of forward-looking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Forward-looking statements are often identified by words like: believe, expect, estimate, anticipate, intend, project and similar expressions, or words which, by their nature, refer to future events. You should not place undue certainty on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this prospectus. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or our predictions.

Plan of Operation

We are a start-up, exploration Stage Corporation and have not yet generated or realized any revenues from our business operations.

There is substantial doubt that we can continue as an on-going business for the next twelve months unless we obtain additional capital to pay our bills. This is because we have not generated any revenues and do not anticipate generating any revenues until we begin removing and selling minerals. There is no assurance we will ever achieve these goals. Accordingly, we must raise cash from sources other than the sale of minerals in order to implement our project and stay in business. Our only other source for cash at this time is investments by others.

Our exploration target is to find a mineralized material, specifically, an ore body containing gold. Our success depends upon finding mineralized material. This includes a determination by our consultant that the property contains reserves. We have not yet selected a consultant. Mineralized material is a mineralized body which has been delineated by appropriate spaced drilling or underground sampling to support sufficient tonnage and average grade of metals to justify removal. If we don’t find mineralized material or if it is not economically feasible to remove it, we will cease operations and you will lose your investment.

In addition, we may not have enough money to complete the acquisition and exploration of a property. If it turns out that we have not raised enough money to complete our acquisition we will try to raise additional funds from a second public offering, a private placement or through loans. At the present time, we have not made any plans to raise additional money and there is no assurance that we would be able to raise additional money in the future. If we need additional money and cannot raise it, we will have to suspend or cease operations.

Research & Development

As an exploration stage company in the mining industry we are not involved in any research and development.

Effects of Compliance with Environmental Laws

As a company in the mining industry we are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. We strive to comply with all applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations are currently taking the steps indicated above. We believe that our operations are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations on environmental matters. These laws and regulations, on federal, state and local levels, are evolving and frequently modified and we cannot predict accurately the effect, if any, they will have on its business in the future. In many instances, the regulations have not been finalized, or are frequently being modified. Even where regulations have been adopted, they are subject to varying and contradicting interpretations and implementation. In some cases, compliance can only be achieved by capital expenditure and we cannot accurately predict what capital expenditures, if any, may be required.

Limited Operating History; Need for Additional Capital

There is no historical financial information about us upon which to base an evaluation of our performance. We are an exploration stage corporation and have not generated any revenues from operations. We cannot guarantee we will be successful in our business operations. Our business is subject to risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise, including limited capital resources, possible delays in the acquisition and exploration of our properties, and possible cost overruns due to price increases in services.

To become profitable and competitive, we need to identify a property and conduct research and explore our property before we start production of any minerals we may find. If we do find mineralized material, we will need additional funding to move beyond the research and exploration stage. We have no assurance that future financing will be available to us on acceptable terms. If financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to continue, develop or expand our operations. Equity financing could result in additional dilution to existing shareholders.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We have completed our public offering as of March 28, 2007 and to date have raised $107,060, we will attempt to raise additional money through a subsequent private placement, public offering or through loans.

Currently, we do not have sufficient funds for our intended business operation. One of our officers and directors, has agreed in financing the related operating expenditures to maintain the Company. The foregoing agreement is oral; we have nothing in writing. While it was agreed to advance the funds, the agreement is unenforceable as a matter of law because no consideration was given. At the present time, we have not made any arrangements to raise additional cash. If we need additional cash and can’t raise it, we will either have to suspend operations until we do raise the cash, or cease operations entirely. Other than as described in this paragraph, we have no other financing plans.

Since inception, we have issued 7,070,000 shares of our common stock and received $107,060.

In April 2006, we issued 3,000,000 shares of common stock to a former officer and director, in consideration of $30 and we issued 3,000,000 shares of common stock to one of our officers and directors in consideration of $30 pursuant to the exemption from registration contained in Regulation S of the Securities Act of 1993.

We issued 1,070,000 shares of common stock pursuant to the exemption from registration contained in section 4 of the Securities Act of 1933\. This was accounted for as a purchase of shares of common stock.

As of June 30, 2024, due to related parties balance of $405,546 (June 30, 2023: $367,985) represents the combination of the following:

$377,546 (June 30, 2023: $339,985) was payable to a principal shareholder’s company, for the operating expenses paid by the related party on behalf of the Company. The loan amount is unsecured, non-interest bearing and due on demand.

$28,000 (June 30, 2023: $28,000) owed to a director of the Company, for the amount of office, travel and telephone expenses paid by the related party on behalf of the Company. The amount is unsecured, non-interest bearing and due on demand.

Loan payable consists of the following:

$284,058 (June 30, 2023: $284,058) was payable to non-related parties. The loan amount is unsecured, non-interest bearing and due on demand.

Where you can find more information

You are advised to read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in conjunction with other reports and documents that we file from time to time with the SEC. In particular, please read our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Annual Report on Form 10-K, and Current Reports on Form 8-K that we file from time to time. You may obtain copies of these reports directly from us or from the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549, and you may obtain information about obtaining access to the Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains information for electronic filers at its website http://www.sec.gov.