ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

General

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes under Item 8 of this annual report. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are not directly comparable from period to period due to acquisitions and dispositions. Refer to Note 3 of our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this annual report for details of each of these transactions. We have elected the presentation requirements under Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act as a smaller reporting company and have herein included a two-year discussion of our financial condition and results of operations.

Overview

The Marquie Group, Inc. is an emerging direct-to-consumer firm specializing in marketing, product development, and media, including a dynamic radio and digital network. We craft and promote top-tier health and beauty solutions that enrich lives, showcased through engaging radio content for our audience. We maintain a website at www.themarquiegroup.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not a part of or incorporated by reference into this or any other report of the company filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 

We have two operating segments: Broadcast, and Health and Beauty, which also qualify as reportable segments. Our operating segments reflect how we assess the performance of each operating segment and determine the appropriate allocations of resources to each segment. We continually review our operating segment classifications to align with operational changes in our business and may make changes as necessary.

We measure and evaluate our operating segments based on operating income and operating expenses that exclude costs related to corporate functions, such as accounting and finance, human resources, legal, tax and treasury. We also exclude costs such as amortization, depreciation, taxes, and interest expense when evaluating the performance of our operating segments.

Our principal sources of broadcast revenue include:

Our principal sources of health and beauty revenue include:

In our broadcast operating segment, the rates we can charge for airtime, advertising and other products and services are dependent upon several factors, including:

In our health and beauty operating segment, the price we can charge for our products are dependent upon several factors, including:

Broadcasting 

Our foundational business is radio broadcasting, which includes the ownership and operation of a syndicated radio network including our affiliated radio stations subscribing to our programming delivery. Refer to Item 1. Business of this annual report for a description of our broadcasting operations.

Broadcast revenue is impacted by the rates radio stations can charge for programming and advertising time, the level of airtime sold to programmers and advertisers, the number of impressions delivered, or downloads made, and the number of listener responses in the case of pay-per-call. Advertising rates are based upon the demand for advertising time, which in turn is based on our stations’ and networks’ ability to produce results for their advertisers. We market ourselves to advertisers based on the responsiveness of our audiences. We do not subscribe to traditional audience measuring services for most of our radio stations.

Each of our radio station affiliates allocates 3 minutes per hour of advertising time for our commercials at a preset time every hour based on the Music of Your Life clock.

Our results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. As is typical in the broadcasting industry, our second and fourth quarter advertising revenue typically exceeds our first and third quarter advertising revenue. Seasonal fluctuations in advertising revenue correspond with quarterly fluctuations in the retail industry. Additionally, we experience increased demand for political advertising during election even numbered years, over non-election odd numbered years. Political advertising revenue varies based on the number and type of candidates as well as the number and type of debated issues.

Broadcast operating expenses include: (i) employee salaries, commissions and related employee benefits and taxes, (ii) facility expenses such as lease expense and utilities, (iii) marketing and promotional expenses, (iv) production and programming expenses, and (v) music license fees. In addition to these expenses, our network incurs programming costs and lease expenses for satellite communication facilities.

Health and Beauty

Except for AminoMints®, our health and beauty operations are owned by Simply Whim, Inc., and include Whim®, an emerging beauty brand blending Nature, Nutrition, and Science to offer safe and effective products. Whim’s founder, a 3-time cancer survivor under treatment, recognizes the U.S.'s regulatory lapses and strives for better standards. Exclusively made in the USA, Whim® aims to provide responsible beauty options. We forecast strong sales growth next year, driven by demand for safer beauty solutions, and plan to exceed these expectations with continued innovation.

Whim® Beauty Products:

Whim® Beauty Products in Development:

AminoMints®:

AminoMints® are a fun and innovative way to introduce amino acid supplements to those unfamiliar or have previously tried them and found the taste or experience unappealing. Daily amino acid supplementation is essential for maintaining health, optimal functioning, and addressing various health concerns. Amino acids are crucial components of all proteins. An imbalance of these amino acids can lead to numerous negative effects, such as fatigue, mood swings, concentration issues, muscle loss, and digestive disorders. Amino acid deficiencies are common and can also impact our appearance, leading to dry, brittle nails, dry hair and skin, loss of lean muscle, and weight gain.

All products in development are estimated to launch mid-2025.

Assets – Inventory and Equipment

Music of Your Life.

A significant amount of equipment is used to broadcast Music of Your Life programming. As of year-end May 31, 2024, all current equipment has been fully depreciated, and includes:

Simply Whim.

Simply Whim assets are not included in our balance sheet calculations as we own less than 51% of the company. This will change in the coming year as we acquire a controlling interest in the company. As of year-end, May 31, 2024, the Simply Whim assets include:

Assets – Intellectual Property

Trademarks

Trademarks are an integral part of our success and valuation. We have multiple trademarks registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”), with additional applications filed and awaiting registration. We have secured exclusive license agreements with the right of first refusal to acquire additional trademarks.

Simply Whim™

The Whim and related trademarks are owned by Simply Whim, Inc. Our 25% acquisition of Simply Whim included an exclusive license to use the trademarks in commerce, with a right of first refusal to acquire.

Trademark application fee is $250 per classification, regardless of the quantity of goods and services, so long as they fall within the same class.

Music of Your Life®.

The Music of Your Life trademarks include the second audio trademark in history to be registered by the USPTO. Total cost of Music of Your Life trademarks is $250,750.

Trademark application fee is $250 per classification, regardless of the quantity of goods and services, so long as they fall within the same class.

Music of Your Life trademarks acquired for $250,000

AminoMints®

The AminoMints trademarks are owned by AminoMints, Inc. Our pending acquisition of AminoMints, Inc. will include an exclusive license, with first right of refusal for the AminoMints trademarks.

Trademark application fee is $250 per classification, regardless of the quantity of goods and services, so long as they fall within the same class.

Trademark Licenses

We have exclusive license agreements for several additional trademarks, either registered, or pending registration with the USPTO.

Trademark application fee is $250 per classification, regardless of the quantity of goods and services, so long as they fall within the same class.

Results of Operations

Following is management’s discussion of the relevant items affecting results of operations for the years ended May 31, 2024, and 2023.

Revenues. The Company generated no revenues for Broadcasting during the years ended May 31, 2024 and 2023. Broadcast radio revenues are primarily generated by pay per call spot sales from various advertisers represented by the advertising agency, MSH Marketing. However, MSH went out of business in 2023, and we are currently reviewing new opportunities for a spot sales agency. Through barter arrangements with our terrestrial radio station affiliates, Music of Your Life owns three minutes per hour to sell goods and services on these stations. Revenue for Health and Beauty will be included in future operations.

Cost of Sales. Our cost of sales for Broadcasting was $-0- for both years ended May 31, 2024 and 2023. Our cost of sales in the future will consist principally of licensing costs and royalties associated with our syndicated radio network, other related services provided directly or outsourced through our affiliates, as well as operational and staffing costs with respect thereto. Our Cost of Sales for Health and Beauty will be included in future operations.

Salaries and Consulting Expenses. All salaries remain unpaid and accruing for the year ending May 31, 2024. Salaries and consulting expenses for the year ended May 31, 2024 were $407,905 as compared to $240,000 for the year ended May 31, 2023. The increase during the year ended May 31, 2024 was mostly the result of additional expenses of $128,205 related to investor relations. The company also issued 185,000,000 shares valued at $39,700 for consulting services rendered to the Company. We expect that salaries and consulting expenses, that are cash-based instead of share-based, will increase as we add personnel to build our health and beauty business.

Professional Fees. Professional fees for the year ended May 31, 2024 were $101,970 as compared to $85,190 for the year ended May 31, 2023. Professional fees consist mainly of the fees related to the audits and reviews of the Company’s financial statements as well as the filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We anticipate that professional fees will increase in future periods as we scale up our operations.

Other Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Other selling, general and administrative expenses were $39,598 for the year ended May 31, 2024 as compared to $31,280 for the year ended May 31, 2023. We anticipate that Other SG&A expenses will increase commensurate with an increase in our operations.

Other Income (Expense). The Company had net other income of $384,017 for the year ended May 31, 2024. For the year ended May 31, 2024, the company incurred interest expense of $521,923 and recorded income from derivative liability of $905,940. The Company had net other income of $1,536,629 for the year ended May 31, 2023. For the year ended May 31, 2023, the company incurred interest expense of $375,008 and recorded income from derivative liability of $1,911,637.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

As of May 31, 2024, our primary source of liquidity consisted of $1,250 in cash and cash equivalents. We hold most of our cash reserves in local checking accounts with local financial institutions. Since inception, we have financed our operations through a combination of short and long-term loans, and through the private placement of our common stock.

We have sustained significant net losses which have resulted in an accumulated deficit at May 31, 2024 of $14,863,486 and are currently experiencing a substantial shortfall in operating capital which raises doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We generated a net loss for the year ended May 31, 2024 of $165,456. Without additional revenues, working capital loans, or equity investment, there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue operations.

We believe these conditions have resulted from the inherent risks associated with small public companies. Such risks include, but are not limited to, the ability to (i) generate revenues and sales of our products and services at levels sufficient to cover our costs and provide a return for investors, (ii) attract additional capital in order to finance growth, (iii) successfully compete with other comparable companies having financial, production and marketing resources significantly greater than those of the Company, and (iv) increasing costs associated with maintaining public company reporting requirements.

We believe that our capital resources are insufficient for ongoing operations, with minimal current cash reserves, particularly given the resources necessary to expand our multi-media entertainment business. We will likely require considerable amounts of financing to make any significant advancement in our business strategy. There is presently no agreement in place that will guarantee financing for our Company, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise any additional funds, or that such funds will be available on acceptable terms. Funds raised through future equity financing will likely be substantially dilutive to current shareholders. Lack of additional funds will materially affect our Company and our business and may cause us to substantially curtail or even cease operations. Consequently, you could incur a loss of your entire investment in the Company.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.

Critical Accounting Policies

We believe the following more critical accounting policies are used in the preparation of our financial statements:

Use of Estimates. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. On a periodic basis, management reviews those estimates, including those related to valuation allowances, loss contingencies, income taxes, and projection of future cash flows.

Research and Development. Research and development costs are charged to operations when incurred and are included in operating expenses.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

There were various accounting standards and interpretations recently issued, none of which are expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, operations, or cash flows.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE