Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations. 

Certain statements in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below, and elsewhere in this annual report, are not related to historical results, and are forward-looking statements.

Forward-looking statements present our expectations or forecasts of future events. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements frequently are accompanied by such words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expects,” “plans,” “intends,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential” or “continue,” or the negative of such terms or other words and terms of similar meaning. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, achievements, or timeliness of such results. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of such forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to publicly update these statements, or disclose any difference between actual results and those reflected in these statements, except as may be required under applicable law

Subsequent written and oral forward looking statements attributable to us or to persons acting in our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements and risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report, and in other reports filed by us with the SEC.

You should read the following description of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the financial statements and accompanying notes included in this Annual Report beginning on page F-1.

Overview

SunHydrogen is developing breakthrough technologies to make, store and use green hydrogen in a market that Goldman Sachs estimates to be worth $12 trillion by 2050. Our patented SunHydrogen Panel technology, currently in development, uses sunlight and any source of water to produce low-cost green hydrogen. Similar to solar panels that produce electricity, our SunHydrogen Panels will produce green hydrogen. Our vision is to become a major technology supplier in the new hydrogen economy. By developing, acquiring and partnering with other critical technologies, we intend to enable a future of emission-free vehicles, ships, data centers, aircrafts and more.

Results of Operations for the Year Ended June 30, 2024 compared to the Year Ended June 30, 2023

Operating Expenses

For the year ended June 30, 2024, operating expenses were $5,001,300 compared to $9,267,147, for the year ended June 30, 2023. Operating expenses consist primarily of research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses incurred in connection with the operation of our business. The decrease of $4,265,847 in operating expenses was primarily due to, a decrease in non-cash stock compensation, a decrease in salary expenses, and a decrease in research and development costs. 


Other Income/(Expenses) 

Other income and (expenses) for the year ended June 30, 2024, were $(4,879,903) compared to $10,242,126 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The net decrease of $15,122,029 in other income and (expenses) was the result of an increase in unrealized loss on related party equity investments of $7,349,102, an increase in dividend expense of $85,940, an increase in realized loss of $169,389, a decrease in gain on derivative liability of $9,204,345, offset by an increase in investment income of $864,115, an increase in capital gain on sale of vehicle of $55,166, an increase in realized gain on redemption of marketable securities of $35,080, a decrease in loss on settlement of derivative liability of $664,627, and a decrease in interest expense of $67,759. 

Net Income (Loss) 

For the year ended June 30, 2024, our net loss was $9,881,203, compared to net income of $974,979 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The majority of the decrease in net income of $10,856,182, was related primarily to the decrease in gain on change of derivative liability, increase in unrealized loss on investments, offset by the decrease in non-cash stock compensation.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity is the ability of a company to generate funds to support its current and future operations, satisfy its obligations, and otherwise operate on an ongoing basis. Significant factors in the management of liquidity are funds generated by operations, levels of accounts receivable and accounts payable and capital expenditures. 

As of June 30, 2024, we had a working capital surplus of $42,386,683, compared to a working capital surplus of $47,689,381 as of June 30, 2023. This decrease in working capital surplus of $5,302,698 was primarily due to a decrease in marketable securities redeemed, and the change in fair value of a short-term investment.

Cash flow used in operating activities was $1,842,726 for the year ended June 30 2024, compared to $4,262,085 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The decrease of $2,419,359 in cash used by operating activities was primarily due to an increase in non-cash expense offset by a decrease in net loss. The Company has had no revenues during the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023.

Cash provided by investing activities for the year ended June 30, 2024 was $2,920,237, compared to $11,101,386 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The decrease of $8,181,149 in cash provided by investing activities was primarily due to a decrease in the net redemption of marketable securities offset by a decrease in the purchase of related party investments, the purchase of a related party convertible note, and an increase in the redemption of short-term investments in corporate securities.

Cash provided by financing activities during the year ended June 30, 2024 was $781,295, compared to $2,665,203 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The decrease in cash provided by financing activities was primarily due to a decrease in net proceeds from purchase agreements.

We have historically obtained funding from investors, through private placements and registered offerings of equity and debt securities. Management believes that the Company will be able to continue to raise funds through the sale of its securities to its existing shareholders and prospective new investors which will provide the additional cash needed to meet the Company’s obligations as they become due and will allow the Company to continue to develop its core business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue raising the required capital for our operations on terms and conditions that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds, we may be forced to curtail and/or cease our operation.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, result of operations, liquidity or capital expenditures. 


Critical Accounting Policies

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to impairment of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, deferred tax assets and fair value computation using the Binomial lattice valuation pricing model. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions, such as the trading value of our common stock and estimated future undiscounted cash flows, that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions; however, we believe that our estimates, including those for the above-described items, are reasonable.

Use of Estimates

In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, management utilizes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. These estimates and assumptions relate to recording, useful lives and impairment of tangible and intangible assets, derivatives, accruals, income taxes, stock-based compensation expense, binomial model inputs and other factors. Management believes it has exercised reasonable judgment in deriving these estimates. Consequently, a change in conditions could affect these estimates.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

Fair value of financial instruments, requires disclosure of the fair value information, whether or not recognized in the balance sheet, where it is practicable to estimate that value. As of June 30, 2024 and 2023, the amounts reported for cash, accrued interest and other expenses, notes payables, and derivative liability approximate the fair value because of their short maturities.

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

Management adopted recently issued accounting pronouncements during the year ended June 30, 2024, as disclosed in the Notes to the financial statements included in this report.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative