.| MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
---|---|--- 

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) provides information that management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of the consolidated financial condition and results of operations of NioCorp and subsidiaries. This item should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

See Item 1, “Business—Historical Development of the Business,” for a description of the 2023 Transactions.

Summary of Consolidated Financial and Operating Performance

The Company had no revenues from mining operations during the fiscal years presented below. Operating expenses incurred related primarily to performing exploration and feasibility study related activities, as well as the activities necessary to support corporate and shareholder duties.

The net loss attributable to the Company decreased to $11.4 million for fiscal year 2024 from $40.1 million for fiscal year 2023. This decreased net loss in fiscal year 2024 as compared to fiscal year 2023 is primarily due to the recognition of general transaction expenses, Earnout Shares, and warrant liabilities associated with the fiscal year 2023 GXII Transaction as well as a decrease in exploration expenditures and fiscal year 2024 non-cash gains associated with changes in Earnout Share valuations and warrant liability valuations.

Results of Operations

The Company had no revenues from mining operations during the fiscal years presented below. Operating expenses incurred related primarily to costs incurred in connection with the 2023 Transactions, as well as performing exploration and feasibility study related activities, and the activities necessary to support corporate and shareholder duties, as detailed in the following table.


Fiscal Year 2024 as Compared to Fiscal Year 2023

Significant items affecting operating expenses are noted below:

Other operating expenses include costs incurred in connection with the 2023 Transactions, including direct transaction expenses, and the fair value of warrant and Earnout Shares liabilities assumed, as well as costs related to investor relations, general office expenditures, equity offering and proxy expenditures, Board-related expenditures, and other miscellaneous costs. These costs decreased in fiscal year 2024 as compared to fiscal year 2023 primarily due to $23.8 million of costs incurred in connection with the 2023 Transactions, which closed on March 17, 2023, as well as overall lower expenditures during fiscal year 2024 for financial services, Board stipends and share-based compensation, and investor relation services. This decline was partially offset by the fiscal year 2024 impact of $1.0 million of additional director and officer insurance premiums associated with our listing on Nasdaq.

Employee-related costs increased in 2024 as compared to 2023, primarily due to an increase in the number of options issued to employees in 2024 partially offset by a lower fair value per option as well as the impact of board-authorized employee salary increases which became effective April 1, 2023.

Exploration expenditures decreased in fiscal year 2024 as compared to fiscal year 2023, reflecting work performed in fiscal year 2023 to complete the development of the Demonstration Plant and the subsequent operation of the Demonstration Plant to verify process improvement efforts and advance the technical and economic analyses on the potential addition of magnetic rare earth oxides to NioCorp’s planned product suite. In addition, 2023 costs increased due to costs related to the completion and filing of the Technical Report Summary based on the Company’s 2022 Feasibility Study for the Elk Creek Project, which was filed with the SEC on September 6, 2022. Demonstration Plant costs were lower in 2024 as project objectives were completed and the Demonstration Plant operations ended in February 2024.

Professional fees increased in fiscal year 2024 as compared to fiscal year 2023, primarily due to additional accounting fees incurred in 2024 associated with our change in auditors as well as legal costs associated with corporate funding initiatives and Form S-1 and S-3 filings.

Other significant items impacting the change in the Company’s net loss are noted below:

Change in fair value of Earnout Shares liability represents the change in fair value related to the Earnout Shares based on the results of Monte Carlo financial modeling. Overall, the decline in the liability corresponds to the overall decline in our share value during fiscal year 2024.

Change in fair value of warrant liability represents the change in fair value related to (i) the additional Warrants (the “Contingent Consent Warrants”) that the Company agreed to issue to Lind Global Asset Management III, LLC (“Lind”) upon certain conditions in connection with the Waiver and Consent Agreement, dated September 25, 2022, between the Company and Lind (the “Lind Consent”), as discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 hereof, and (ii) the change in fair value of the April 2024 Warrants, as discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 hereof, partially offset by the change in the fair value of the Private Warrants based primarily on the impacts of a lower closing Common Share price, which increases the probability of these Contingent Consent Warrants being issued under the Lind Consent terms.

Change in fair value of convertible notes represents the impact of the initial allocation of fair value to the April 2024 Notes, which are carried at fair value, as well as the change in fair value for the period ended June 30, 2024.

Loss on debt extinguishment represents the loss incurred under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 470, Debt, related to the convertible security issued to Lind (the “Lind III Convertible Security”) with a face value of $11.7 million (representing $10.0 million in funding plus an implied 8.5% interest rate per annum for the term of the Lind III Convertible Security) pursuant to the Convertible Security Funding Agreement, dated February 16, 2021, as amended by Amendment #1 to the Convertible Security Funding Agreement, dated


December 2, 2021, between the Company and Lind (as amended, the “Lind III Agreement”), as discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 hereof.

Interest expense increased in fiscal year 2024 as compared to fiscal year 2023 due to the impacts of Convertible Debenture interest expense incurred in fiscal year 2024.

Loss attributable to noncontrolling interest represents the portion of net loss in ECRC attributable to the Vested Shares, which are not owned by the Company.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We have no revenue generating operations from which we can internally generate funds. To date, our ongoing operations have been financed by the sale of our equity securities by way of private placements, convertible securities issuances, the exercise of incentive Options and Warrants, and related party loans. With respect to currently outstanding Options and Warrants, we believe that exercise of these instruments, and cash proceeds from such exercises, will not occur unless and until the market price for our Common Shares equals or exceeds the related exercise price of each instrument.

In connection with the Closing of the 2023 Transactions, the Company received net cash proceeds of $8.3 million, as follows:

The 2023 Transactions delivered to NioCorp several important benefits, including a ready pathway to an up-listing to the Nasdaq, which is expected to allow additional institutional firms to invest in the Company for the first time. Further, we believe it has given NioCorp and the Elk Creek Project a much higher profile among institutional investors evaluating projects in the critical materials space.

The sale of the April 2024 Notes has provided, and the Yorkville Equity Facility Financing is expected to provide, near-term and longer-term access to capital. The ability of the Company to draw down on the Yorkville Equity Facility Financing Agreement, at its discretion, is subject to certain limitations and the satisfaction of certain conditions. When available, the Yorkville Equity Facility Financing Agreement provides an opportunity to actively manage the cash needs of the Company more closely. Historically, cash has generally been available to the Company through private placements of equity for which the timing did not always coincide with the Company’s cash needs. In the near term, the Company intends to utilize the Yorkville Equity Facility Financing Agreement to offset amounts owed under the April 2024 Notes. The Company may also utilize the Yorkville Equity Facility Financing Agreement to potentially generate funds at a time when they are in need. Alternatively, the Company can also utilize the Yorkville Equity Facility Financing Agreement for opportunistic share sales.

On July 19, 2024, the Company and Yorkville entered into a make-whole payment agreement under which Yorkville agreed to convert the remaining principal and accrued interest of $553,767 under the Convertible Debenture into Common Shares in exchange for a $95,000 make-whole payment.

On September 17, 2024, all the remaining outstanding Financing Warrants expired.

On September 17, 2024, the Company’s Common Share price was below the threshold price set forth in the Lind Consent, and accordingly, the Company issued 2,816,742 Contingent Consent Warrants to Lind. Each Contingent Consent Warrant is exercisable for one Common Share at an exercise price of $2.308 and may be exercised at any time prior to


their expiration on September 17, 2028. The number of Contingent Consent Warrants issued was based on $5.0 million divided by the five-day volume weighted average price of the Common Shares on September 16, 2024.

As of June 30, 2024, the Company had cash of $2.0 million and a working capital deficit of $9.0 million, compared to cash of $2.3 million and working capital of $0.2 million on June 30, 2023. Subsequent to June 30, 2024, the Company issued 339,250 Common Shares under the Yorkville Equity Facility Financing Agreement in exchange for $0.6 million in gross cash proceeds. On September 11, 2024, the Company and Mark Smith, Chief Executive Officer, President and Executive Chairman of NioCorp, entered into a loan agreement (the “Smith Loan Agreement”), which provides for a $2.0 million non-revolving credit facility. An initial drawdown under the Smith Loan Agreement of $33,000 was completed on September 11, 2024. NioCorp intends to use the net proceeds from these transactions to satisfy amounts due under the April 2024 Notes and for general corporate purposes.

We expect that the Company will operate at a loss for the foreseeable future. The Company’s current planned cash needs are approximately $26.0 million until June 30, 2025.

In addition to outstanding accounts payable and short-term liabilities, our average monthly planned expenditures through June 30, 2025 are expected to be approximately $1.6 million per month, of which approximately $375,000 is for corporate overhead and estimated costs related to securing financing necessary for advancement of the Elk Creek Project. This includes general overhead costs, satisfying outstanding accounts payable, and repayment of the April 2024 Notes and the Smith Loan Agreement. This also includes anticipated financing costs associated with the Elk Creek Project, including an updated mine plan in connection with the EXIM application process. The scope of these financing costs remains under discussion with EXIM. Approximately $1.2 million per month is planned for expenditures relating to the advancement of the Elk Creek Project by NioCorp’s majority owned subsidiary, ECRC. The Company’s ability to continue operations and fund our current work plan is dependent on management’s ability to secure additional financing.

The Company anticipates that it does not have sufficient cash on hand to continue to fund basic operations for the next twelve months, and additional funds totaling $25.0 million to $26.0 million, net of funds raised from advances under the Yorkville Equity Facility Financing Agreement and borrowings under the Smith Loan Agreement, are likely to be necessary to continue advancing the project in the areas of financing, permitting, and detailed engineering. While the Yorkville Equity Facility Financing Agreement may provide the Company with access to additional capital, the Company will likely require additional capital to meet its cash needs. Management is actively pursuing such additional sources of debt and equity financing, and while it has been successful in doing so in the past, there can be no assurance it will be able to do so in the future.

Elk Creek Property and lease commitments are $15,000 through June 30, 2025. To maintain our currently held properties and fund our currently anticipated general and administrative costs and planned exploration and development activities at the Elk Creek Project for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2025, the Company will likely require additional financing during the current fiscal year. Should such financing not be available in that timeframe, we will be required to reduce our activities and will not be able to carry out all our presently planned activities at the Elk Creek Project.

On June 6, 2023, the Company announced that it had submitted an application to EXIM to obtain EXIM Financing to fund the project costs for the Elk Creek Project, under EXIM’s “Make More in America” initiative. The Company was informed that its application received approval by the first of three reviews by the EXIM Transaction Review Committee on October 2, 2023. EXIM deployed additional resources to the processing of the Company’s application during the quarter ended December 31, 2023 and has retained financial and legal consultants to support EXIM’s due diligence on the Elk Creek Project. On April 15, 2024, the Company received the PPL from EXIM. The PPL is a summary of EXIM’s initial due diligence findings and also includes a preliminary Indicative Term Sheet. The PPL identified additional project activities to be undertaken by the Company in conjunction with the EXIM evaluation process. These include an updated mine plan and updated Elk Creek Project capital costs on a final or close-to-final basis reflecting updated process flows. Management is working with EXIM to continue to advance the project through the next stages of EXIM’s due diligence and loan application process. We are currently unable to estimate how long the application process may take, and there can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully negotiate a final commitment of debt financing from EXIM.


Except for potential funding from advanced under the Yorkville Equity Facility Financing and potential funding under the Smith Loan Agreement, each as discussed above, and the potential exercise of Options and Warrants, we currently have no further funding commitments or arrangements for additional financing at this time, and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement, NioCorp is restricted from issuing equity or equity-linked securities (other than Common Shares) or any preferred equity or non-voting equity if such issuance would adversely impact the rights of the holders of the shares of Class B common stock of ECRC, without the consent of the holders of a majority of the shares of Class B common stock of ECRC. The April 2024 Purchase Agreement also contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit NioCorp’s ability to use the proceeds from the April 2024 Purchase Agreement to pay related party debt or to enter into any variable rate transaction, including issuances of equity or debt securities that are convertible into Common Shares at variable rates and any equity line of credit, ATM agreement or other continuous offering of Common Shares, other than with Yorkville, subject to certain exceptions. Notwithstanding the restrictions set forth in the Exchange Agreement and the April 2024 Purchase Agreement, there is significant uncertainty that we would be able to secure any additional financing in the current equity or debt markets. The quantity of funds to be raised and the terms of any proposed equity or debt financing that may be undertaken will be negotiated by management as opportunities to raise funds arise. Management may pursue funding sources of both debt and equity financing, including but not limited to the issuance of equity securities in the form of Common Shares, Warrants, subscription receipts, or any combination thereof in units of the Company pursuant to private placements to accredited investors or pursuant to public offerings in the form of underwritten/brokered offerings, registered direct offerings, or other forms of equity financing and public or private issuances of debt securities, including secured and unsecured convertible debt instruments or secured debt project financing. Management does not currently know the terms pursuant to which such financings may be completed in the future, but any such financings will be negotiated at arm’s-length. Future financings involving the issuance of equity securities or derivatives thereof will likely be completed at a discount to the then-current market price of the Company’s securities and will likely be dilutive to current shareholders. In addition, we could raise funds through the sale of interests in our mineral properties, although current market conditions and other recent worldwide events have substantially reduced the number of potential buyers/acquirers of any such interests. However, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to be successful in raising such funds.

Based on the conditions described within, management has concluded and the audit opinion and notes that accompany our consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2024, disclose that substantial doubt exists as to our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been prepared under the assumption that we will continue as a going concern. As defined under S-K 1300, we are a development stage issuer, and we have incurred losses since our inception. We may not have sufficient cash, including option and warrant exercises subsequent to June 30, 2024, to fund normal operations and meet debt obligations for the next twelve months without deferring payment on certain current liabilities and raising additional funds. Uncertainty in capital markets, supply chain disruptions, increased interest rates and inflation, and the potential for geographic recessions have contributed to general global economic uncertainty. During fiscal year 2024, these events continued to create uncertainty with respect to overall project funding and timelines. We believe that the going concern uncertainty cannot be alleviated with confidence until the Company has entered into a business climate where funding of its planned ongoing operating activities is secured. Therefore, these factors raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern.

We have no exposure to any asset-backed commercial paper. Other than cash held by our subsidiaries for their immediate operating needs in Colorado and Nebraska, all of our cash reserves are on deposit with major U.S. and Canadian chartered banks. We do not believe that the credit, liquidity, or market risks with respect thereto have increased as a result of the current market conditions. However, in order to achieve greater security for the preservation of our capital, we have, of necessity, been required to accept lower rates of interest, which has also lowered our potential interest income.

Operating Activities

During the year ended June 30, 2024, the Company’s operating activities consumed $11.7 million of cash (2023: $17.3 million). Overall, operational outflows during fiscal year 2024 decreased from the corresponding period of 2023 due to fiscal year 2023 cash expenses related to the 2023 Transactions and a decrease in fiscal year 2024 exploration-


related spending at the Elk Creek Project. Going forward, the Company’s working capital requirements are expected to increase substantially in connection with the development of the Elk Creek Project.

Investing Activities 

The Company had minimal investing activities during the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

Financing Activities 

Net cash provided by financing activities was $11.4 million in fiscal year 2024 (2023: $14.6 million). This decrease in financing inflows primarily reflects the timing of cash inflows from the financing transactions disclosed below.

2024 inflows reflect the gross receipts of $1.0 million from the September 2023 Private Placement (as defined below), $1.3 million from the December 2023 Private Placement (as defined below), $0.6 million from the June 2024 Private Placement (as defined below) and $3.3 million from Common Share issuances under the Yorkville Equity Facility Financing Agreement, as well as $6.5 million of net proceeds from the issuance of the April 2024 Notes.

The following is a discussion of significant financing transactions since the beginning of fiscal year 2024:

| ●| On September 1, 2023, the Company closed a non-brokered private placement (the “September 2023 Private Placement”) with a single investor and issued 250,000 units of the Company (the “September 2023 Units”), at a price of $4.00 per September 2023 Unit, for aggregate gross proceeds of $1.0 million. Each September 2023 Unit consisted of one Common Share and one Warrant (the “September 2023 Warrants”). Each September 2023 Warrant is exercisable for one Common Share at a price of $4.60 until September 1, 2025. 
---|---|--- 

| ●| On December 22, 2023, the Company closed a non-brokered private placement (the “December 2023 Private Placement”) and issued an aggregate of 413,432 units of the Company (the “December 2023 Units”), including an aggregate of 274,587 December 2023 Units to certain non-affiliated accredited investors at a price of $3.08 per December 2023 Unit and an aggregate of 138,845 December 2023 Units to certain of the Company’s officers and directors at a price of $3.205 per December 2023 Unit, for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $1.29 million. Each December 2023 Unit consisted of one Common Share and one Warrant (the “December 2023 Warrants”). Each December 2023 Warrant is exercisable for one Common Share at a price of $3.54 until December 22, 2025. 
---|---|--- 

| ●| On April 12, 2024, the Company issued and sold to Yorkville and Lind Global Fund II LP (together with Yorkville, the “April 2024 Purchasers”) $8.0 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes (the “April 2024 Notes”), pursuant to a securities purchase agreement, dated April 11, 2024 (the “April 2024 Purchase Agreement”), between the Company and each of the April 2024 Purchasers. Pursuant to the terms of the April 2024 Notes, subject to certain exceptions, on the first day of each calendar month, beginning on June 1, 2024 (excluding August 2024) (the “Payment Date”), the Company will be required to repay a portion of the outstanding balance of all of the April 2024 Notes, on a pro-rata basis, in an amount equal to the sum of (i) $1.4 million of principal (or the outstanding principal if less than such amount) in the aggregate among all of the outstanding April 2024 Notes, plus (ii) 8.0% of the principal amount being paid (the “Payment Premium”), and (iii) accrued and unpaid interest, if any, as of the Payment Date. The Company is required to make payments on each Payment Date until the entire outstanding principal is repaid but will not have an obligation to make a payment on a Payment Date if certain equity conditions (the “Equity Conditions”) are satisfied. 
---|---|--- 

The Company also issued to the April 2024 Purchasers, in proportion to the aggregate principal amount of April 2024 Notes issued to each April 2024 Purchaser, Warrants (the “April 2024 Warrants”) to purchase up to 615,385 Common Shares (the “April 2024 Warrants Shares”), which are equal to 25% of the aggregate principal amount of April 2024 Notes issued to the April 2024 Purchasers divided by the exercise price of $3.25, subject to any adjustment to give effect to any stock dividend, stock split or recapitalization.


Pursuant to the April 2024 Purchase Agreement, the April 2024 Purchasers advanced an aggregate of $6.935 million to the Company in consideration of the issuance by the Company to the April 2024 Purchasers of $8.0 million aggregate principal amount of the April 2024 Notes and April 2024 Warrants.

Proceeds from the April 2024 Purchase Agreement were used for general working capital purposes, including for accounts payable, other payables and operating expenses, and to satisfy the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the April 2024 Purchase Agreement.

Subject to certain limitations contained within the April 2024 Notes, holders of the April 2024 Notes will be entitled to convert the principal amount of, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and any Payment Premium that has become due and payable on each April 2024 Note, from time to time over their term, into a number of Common Shares equal to the quotient of the amount being converted divided by a fixed conversion price of $2.75 per Common Share up to a maximum of 3,141,817 Common Shares (together with the April 2024 Warrant Shares, the “April 2024 Underlying Shares”).

The April 2024 Notes are the unsecured obligations of the Company and will mature on December 31, 2024. The April 2024 Notes incur a simple interest rate obligation of 0.0% per annum (which will increase to 18.0% per annum upon the occurrence of an event of default). The outstanding principal amount of, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on, and the Payment Premium, if any, on the April 2024 Notes must be paid by NioCorp in cash when the same becomes due and payable under the terms of the April 2024 Notes at their stated maturity, upon their redemption or otherwise.

The April 2024 Purchase Agreement also contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit NioCorp’s ability to use the proceeds from the sale of the April 2024 Notes and the exercise of the April 2024 Warrants to repay related party debt or to enter into any variable rate transaction other than with Yorkville, subject to certain exceptions, and to distribute proceeds from the sale of the April 2024 Notes and the exercise of the April 2024 Warrants to subsidiaries other than ECRC and 0896800 B.C. Ltd. (together with ECRC, the “Guarantors”), upon the entry by the Guarantors into a global guaranty agreement, dated as of April 11, 2024, among the Guarantors in favor of the Purchasers (the “Guaranty Agreement”). Pursuant to the Guaranty Agreement, the Guarantors guaranteed the full, prompt and unconditional payment when due (whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise), and the performance of all liabilities, agreements and other obligations of NioCorp to the April 2024 Purchasers contained in the April 2024 Purchase Agreement, the April 2024 Notes, and the April 2024 Warrants, to the extent such liabilities, agreements and obligations are payable in cash.

On September 4, 2024, NioCorp entered into (i) a consent and waiver (the “Yorkville Consent”) to the April 2024 Note issued and sold to Yorkville pursuant to the April 2024 Purchase Agreement and (ii) a consent and waiver (together with the Yorkville Consent, the “Consents”) to the April 2024 Note issued and sold to Lind Global Fund II LP pursuant to the April 2024 Purchase Agreement. The Consents, among other things, reduced the amounts due to the April 2024 Purchasers on September 1, 2024 by an aggregate of $1.2 million to an aggregate of $0.3 million, increased the amounts due to the April 2024 Purchasers on December 1, 2024 by an aggregate of $1.2 million, and prospectively waived any term of the April 2024 Notes that would otherwise be triggered upon a failure of the Company to pay to the April 2024 Purchasers the remainder of the amount due on September 1, 2024. Except as modified by the Consents, the terms of the April 2024 Notes as previously disclosed are unchanged.

| ●| On June 24, 2024, the Company closed a non-brokered private placement (the “June 2024 Private Placement”) with a single investor of 315,000 units of the Company (the “June 2024 Units”), at a price of $1.91 per June 2024 Unit, for aggregate gross proceeds of $0.6 million. Each June 2024 Unit consisted of one Common Share and one Warrant (the “June 2024 Warrants”). Each June 2024 Warrant is exercisable for one Common Share at a price of $2.20 until June 24, 2026. 
---|---|--- 

| ●| On September 11, 2024, the Company entered into the Smith Loan Agreement with Mark Smith, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Executive Chairman, pursuant to which Mr. Smith agreed to make available to the Company a non-revolving, multiple draw credit facility of up to $2.0 million. Borrowings under the Smith Loan Agreement bear interest at a rate of 10% per annum and are subject to an establishment fee equal to 2.5% of the amount of any drawdown payable at the time of the drawdown. Any outstanding balance on 
---|---|--- 


Cash Flow Considerations

The Company has historically relied upon debt and equity financings to finance its activities. Subject to the restrictions set forth in the Exchange Agreement and the April 2024 Purchase Agreement, the Company may pursue additional debt and/or equity financing in the medium term; however, there can be no assurance the Company will be able to obtain any required financing in the future on acceptable terms.

The Company has limited financial resources compared to its proposed expenditures, no source of operating income, and no assurance that additional funding will be available to it for current or future projects, although the Company has been successful in the past in financing its activities through the sale of equity securities.

The ability of the Company to arrange additional financing in the future will depend, in part, on the prevailing capital market conditions, and its success in developing the Elk Creek Project. Any quoted market for the Common Shares may be subject to market trends generally, notwithstanding any potential success of the Company in creating revenue, cash flows, or earnings, and any depression of the trading price of the Common Shares could impact its ability to obtain equity financing on acceptable terms.

Historically, the Company has used net proceeds from issuances of Common Shares to provide sufficient funds to meet its near-term exploration and development plans and other contractual obligations when due. However, development and construction of the Elk Creek Project will require substantial additional capital resources. This includes near-term funding and, ultimately, funding for Elk Creek Project construction and other costs. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” above, for the Company’s discussion of arrangements related to possible future financings.

Debt Covenants

The April 2024 Notes contain events of default customary for instruments of their type (with customary grace periods, as applicable) and provide that, upon the occurrence of an event of default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to NioCorp, all outstanding April 2024 Notes will become due and payable immediately without further action or notice. If any other type of event of default occurs and is continuing, then any holder may declare all of its April 2024 Notes to be due and payable immediately. The April 2024 Purchase Agreement also contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit NioCorp’s ability to use the proceeds from the April 2024 Purchase Agreement to repay related party debt or to enter into any variable rate transaction other than with Yorkville, subject to certain exceptions. The Company was in compliance with these covenants as of June 30, 2024.

Environmental

Our mining and exploration activities are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. We have made, and expect to make in the future, expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations, but cannot predict the full amount of such future expenditures. As of June 30, 2024 and 2023, we had accrued $48,000 and $48,000, respectively, related to estimated environmental obligations.

Forward-Looking Statements

The foregoing discussion and analysis, as well as certain information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created thereby. See the discussion in “Forward-Looking Statements” in Item 1., “Business.” 


Accounting Developments 

For a discussion of Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Critical Accounting Estimates and Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As described in Note 3, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and related disclosures of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Our estimates are based on our experience and our interpretation of economic, political, regulatory, and other factors that affect our business prospects. Many of the inputs into our estimation process are subjective and are subject to uncertainty over time and therefore, actual results may differ significantly from our estimates. Note 3 also discloses recent accounting pronouncements applicable to the Company.

We believe that our most critical accounting estimates are related to the carrying value of our long term assets; accounting for income taxes and the valuation of deferred tax assets; and the valuation of liabilities associated with warrants, convertible debt carried at fair value, and Earnout Shares, as they require us to make assumptions that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made and changes in them are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board (the “Audit Committee”), and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosures presented below. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed to be critical. However, changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

Carrying Value of Long-Lived Assets 

The recoverability of the carrying values of mineral properties is dependent upon economic reserves being discovered or developed on the properties, permitting, financing, start-up, and commercial production from, or the sale/lease of, or other strategic transactions related to these properties. Development and/or start-up of a project will depend on, among other things, management’s ability to raise sufficient capital for these purposes. We assess the carrying cost of our mineral properties for impairment whenever information or circumstances indicate the potential for impairment. Key inputs include events and circumstances such as our inability to obtain all the necessary permits, changes in the legal status of our mineral properties, government actions, the results of exploration activities and technical evaluations and changes in economic conditions, including the price of commodities or input prices. Many of these inputs are subjective and are subject to uncertainty over time. Such evaluations compare estimated future net cash flows with our carrying costs and future obligations on an undiscounted basis. If it is determined that the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the property, an impairment loss will be recorded, measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Where estimates of future net cash flows are not determinable and where other conditions indicate the potential for impairment, management uses available market information and/or third-party valuation experts to assess if the carrying value can be recovered and to estimate fair value.

We review and evaluate our long-lived assets, other than mineral properties, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is measured and recorded based on the estimated fair value of the long-lived assets being tested for impairment and their carrying amounts.

Income Taxes

We have assets, hold interests, and conduct activities in the U.S. and Canada and are subject to their tax regimes. Tax laws are complex and continue to evolve. While we have a history of losses, our assumptions made in tax returns are subject to review and interpretation by taxing authorities and could be modified. Management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and any valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. We consider factors such as the cumulative income or loss in recent years; reversal of deferred tax liabilities; projected future taxable income exclusive of temporary differences;


the character of the income tax asset, including income tax positions; tax planning strategies and the period over which we expect the deferred tax assets to be recovered in the determination of the valuation allowance. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates or we adjust our estimates in the future, we may need to adjust our valuation allowance, which could materially impact our financial position and results of operations.

Financial Instruments Carried at Fair Value

The fair values of our Earnout Shares, Private Warrants, Contingent Consent Warrants, and convertible debt carried at fair value were determined using various significant unobservable inputs, including a discount rate and our best estimate of expected volatility and expected holding periods. Changes in the estimated fair values of these liabilities may have material impacts on our results of operations in any given period, as any increases in these liabilities have a corresponding negative impact on our U.S. GAAP results of operations. See Notes 9, 10, and 11c to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details.

Other

The Company has one class of shares, being Common Shares. A summary of outstanding shares, share options, warrants, and convertible debt option as of September 20, 2024, is set out below, on a fully diluted basis.

|