Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included in Item 8 and the Risk Factors included in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All information presented herein is based on our fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to particular years or quarters refer to our fiscal years ended in July and the associated quarters of those fiscal years. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law.

We have elected to omit discussion on the earliest of the three years covered by the consolidated financial statements presented. Refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2023, filed on September 18, 2023, for reference to discussion of the fiscal year ended July 31, 2022, the earliest of the three fiscal years presented.

Overview

Guidewire is the platform that property and casualty (“P&C”) insurers trust to engage, innovate, and grow efficiently. Our core systems leverage data and analytics, digital, and artificial intelligence (“AI”). As a partner to our customers, we continually evolve to enable their success and assist them in navigating a rapidly changing insurance market.

Our core products are InsuranceSuite Cloud, InsuranceNow, and InsuranceSuite for self-managed installations. These products are transactional systems of record that support the entire insurance lifecycle, including insurance product definition, distribution, underwriting, policyholder services, and claims management. We also sell digital engagement and analytics products. Our digital engagement products enable digital sales, omnichannel service, and enhanced claims experiences for policyholders, agents, vendor partners, and field personnel. Our analytics offerings enable insurers to manage data more effectively, gain insights into their business, drive operational efficiencies, and underwrite new and evolving risks. To support P&C insurers globally, we have localized, and will continue to localize, our suite of products for use in a variety of international regulatory, language, and currency environments. 

InsuranceSuite Cloud is a highly configurable and scalable product, delivered as a service, and primarily comprised of three core applications (PolicyCenter Cloud, BillingCenter Cloud, and ClaimCenter Cloud) that can be subscribed to separately or together. These applications are built on and optimized for our Guidewire Cloud Platform (“GWCP”) architecture and leverage our in-house cloud operations team. InsuranceSuite Cloud is designed to support multiple releases each year to ensure that cloud customers remain on the latest version and gain fast access to our innovation efforts. Additionally, InsuranceSuite Cloud embeds digital and analytics capabilities natively into our platform. Most new sales and implementations are for InsuranceSuite Cloud. 

InsuranceNow is a complete, cloud-based application that offers policy, billing, and claims management functionality, plus pre-integrated document production, analytics, and other capabilities, that increases agility without adding complexity. InsuranceNow is hosted on AWS and managed by our internal cloud operations team.

InsuranceSuite for self-managed installations is comprised of three core applications (PolicyCenter, BillingCenter, and ClaimCenter) that can be licensed separately or together and can be deployed and updated by our customers and their implementation partners. 

Our customers range from some of the largest global insurance companies or their subsidiaries to predominantly national or local insurers that serve specific states and/or regions. Our customer engagement is led by our direct sales team and supported by our system integrator (“SI”) partners. We maintain and continue to grow our sales and marketing efforts globally, and maintain regional sales centers throughout the world. 

Because our platform is critical to our new and existing customers’ businesses, their decision-making and product evaluation process is thorough, which often results in an extended sales cycle. These evaluation periods can extend further if a customer purchases multiple products or is considering a move to a cloud-based subscription for the first time. Sales to new customers often involve extensive customer due diligence and reference checks. The success of our sales efforts relies on continued improvements and enhancements to our current products, the introduction of new products, efficient operation of our cloud infrastructure, continued development of relevant local content and automated tools for updating content, and successful implementations and migrations. 

We sell our suite of products through subscription services for our platform and cloud-delivered products and term licenses for our self-managed products. We generally price our products based on the amount of Direct Written Premium (“DWP”) that will be managed by our products. Our subscription, term license, and support fees are typically invoiced annually in advance. Subscription services are generally sold with an initial term of between three and five years with optional annual renewals commencing after the initial term. Subscription revenue is recognized on a ratable basis over the committed term, once all revenue recognition criteria are met including providing access to the service. Term licenses are primarily sold to existing on-premise customers and are typically an initial commitment with optional renewals thereafter. We may enter into term license arrangements with our customers that have an initial term of more than one year or may renew license arrangements for longer than one year. Term license revenue is typically recognized when software is made available to the customer, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Our support revenue is generally recognized ratably over the committed support term of the licensed software. Our support fees are typically priced as a fixed percentage of the associated license fees. We also offer professional services, both directly and through SI partners, to help our customers deploy, migrate, and utilize our platform and suite of products. A majority of our services revenue is billed monthly on a time and materials basis.

Over the past few years, we have primarily been entering into cloud-based subscription arrangements with our new and existing customers, and we anticipate that subscription arrangements will be a significant majority of annual new sales going forward. We may decide to change certain contract terms in new arrangements to remain competitive or otherwise meet market demands which may impact the way we recognize revenue and/or ARR.

To extend our technology leadership in the global market and to drive operating efficiency, we continue to invest in product development and cloud operations to enhance and improve our current products, introduce new products, and advance our ability to securely and cost-effectively deliver our services in the cloud. Continued investment is critical as we seek to assist our customers in achieving their technology goals, maintain our competitive advantage, grow our revenue, expand internationally, and meet evolving customer demands. In certain cases, we may also acquire skills and technologies to manage our cloud infrastructure and accelerate our time to market for new products, solutions, and upgrades.

Our track record of success with customers and their implementations is central to maintaining our strong competitive position. We rely on our global services team and SI partners to ensure that teams with the right combination of product, business, and language skills are used in the most efficient way to meet our customers’ implementation and migration needs. We have extensive relationships with SI, consulting, technology, and other industry partners. Our network of partners has expanded as interest in and adoption of our platform has grown. We encourage our partners to co-market, pursue joint sales initiatives, and drive broader adoption of our technology, helping us grow our business more efficiently and enabling us to focus our resources on continued innovation and further enhancement of our solutions. 

We work closely with our network of third-party SI partners to facilitate new sales and implementations of our products. Our partnership with leading SI partners allows us to increase efficiency and scale while reducing customer implementation and migration costs. We continue to invest time and resources to increase the number of qualified consultants employed by our SI partners, develop relationships with new partners in existing and new markets, and ensure that all SI partners are qualified to assist with implementing our products. We believe this model will continue to serve us well, and we intend to continue to expand our network of partners and the number of certified consultants with whom we work so we can leverage our SI partners more effectively, especially for future subscription migrations and implementations.

We face a number of risks in the execution of our strategy, including, but not limited to, risks related to expanding to new markets, managing lengthy sales cycles, competing effectively in the global market, relying on sales to a relatively small number of large customers, developing new or acquiring existing products successfully, making long-term pricing commitments in our customer contracts based on available information and estimates about our future costs that may change, increasing the overall market acceptance of our cloud-based products, maintaining customer satisfaction and renewals of our products, and cost-effectively and securely managing the infrastructure of our cloud-based customers. In response to these and other risks we might face, we continue to invest in many areas of our business, including product development, cloud operations, cybersecurity, introduction of new products and/or new features, implementation and migration services, and sales and marketing. 

Seasonality

We have experienced seasonal variations in our license revenue and, to a lesser extent, in our subscription revenue as a result of increased customer orders in our fourth fiscal quarter, which is the quarter ending July 31. We generally see significantly increased orders in our fourth fiscal quarter, due to efforts by our sales team to achieve annual incentives. Because we recognize revenue upfront for term licenses compared to over time for subscription services, changes in the mix between term license and subscription services may impact our quarterly results. Additionally, any significant multi-year term license or 

term license non-renewal could impact quarterly results. Subscription sales now represent the significant majority of total sales and, as a result when compared to term license sales, the revenue we recognize in the initial fiscal year of an order is lower, deferred revenue is higher, and our total reported revenue growth may be adversely affected in the near term due to the ratable nature of these arrangements. Over time, this ratable revenue dynamic will dampen the impact of seasonality on our revenue.

Our services revenue is also subject to seasonal fluctuations, though to a lesser degree than our license revenue and subscription revenue. Our services revenue is impacted by the number of billable days in a given fiscal quarter. Our second fiscal quarter, which is the quarter ending January 31, usually has fewer billable days due to the impact of calendar year end holidays in Europe and the United States. Our fourth fiscal quarter usually has fewer billable days due to the impact of vacations taken by our services professionals. Because we pay our services professionals the same amount throughout the year, our gross margins on our services revenue are usually lower in these quarters. This seasonal pattern, however, may be absent in any given year.

Global Events

Global events have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect workforces, organizations, economies, and financial markets globally, leading to economic downturns, inflation, and increased market volatility. For instance, ongoing conflicts such as the wars between Israel and Hamas and between Russia and Ukraine, escalating tensions in the South China Sea, inflation, previous bank failures in the United States and Switzerland, and supply chain issues have contributed to global economic and market volatility in recent years. We are unable to accurately predict the full impact that these global events will have on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, and cash flows due to numerous uncertainties.

Our business and financial results have been and may in the future be impacted due to these disruptions, which may affect our ARR and revenue growth rates, sales cycles, services revenue and margins, operating cash flow and expenses, employee attrition, hiring and onboarding necessary personnel, allowance for collectibility of accounts receivable and unbilled receivables, and the change in fair value of strategic investments. Additionally, inflation levels are impacting the global economy and have magnified the impact of these disruptions.

Our customers may be unable to pay or may request amended payment terms for their outstanding invoices due to the economic impacts from these disruptions, and we may need to increase our accounts receivable allowances. A decrease in orders in a given period could negatively affect our revenue and ARR in future periods, particularly if experienced on a sustained basis, because a substantial proportion of our new software subscription services orders is recognized as revenue over time. Also, the global economic impact of these disruptions could affect our customers’ DWP, which could ultimately impact our revenue as we generally price our products based on the amount of DWP that will be managed by our products. As a result of these developments and the related economic impact to our business, we may be required to record impairment related to our operating lease assets, investments, long-lived assets, intangible assets, or goodwill.

We will continue to monitor and evaluate the nature and extent of these global events on our business.

Key Business Metrics

We use certain key metrics and financial measures not prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) to evaluate and manage our business, including ARR and free cash flow. For a further discussion of how we use key metrics and certain non-GAAP financial measures, see “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Annual Recurring Revenue (“ARR”)

We use ARR to quantify the annualized recurring value outlined in active customer contracts at the end of a reporting period. ARR includes the annualized recurring value of term licenses, subscription agreements, support contracts, and hosting agreements based on customer contractual terms and invoicing activities for the current reporting period, which may not be the same as the timing and amount of revenue recognized. ARR reflects all fee changes due to contract renewals, non-renewals, expansion, cancellations, attrition, or renegotiations at a higher or lower fee arrangement that are effective as of the ARR reporting date. All components of the licensing and other arrangements that are not expected to recur (primarily perpetual licenses and professional services) are excluded from our ARR calculations. In some arrangements with multiple performance obligations, a portion of recurring license and support or subscription contract value is allocated to services revenue for revenue recognition purposes, but does not get allocated for purposes of calculating ARR. This revenue allocation generally only impacts the initial term of the contract. This means that if we increase arrangements with multiple performance obligations that include services at discounted rates, more of the total contract value would be recognized as services revenue, but our reported ARR amount would not be impacted. In fiscal year 2024, the recurring license and support or subscription contract value recognized as services revenue was $10.7 million.

If a customer contract contains invoicing amounts that increase over the contract term, then ARR reflects the annualized invoicing amount outlined in the contract for the current reporting period. For example, given a contract with annual invoicing of $1.0 million at the beginning of year one, $2.0 million at the beginning of year two, and $3.0 million at the beginning of year three, and the reporting period is subsequent to year two invoicing and prior to year three invoicing, the reported ARR for that contract would be $2.0 million.

As of July 31, 2024, ARR was $864 million, or $872 million based on currency exchange rates as of July 31, 2023. We measure ARR results on a constant currency basis during the fiscal year and revalue ARR at year end to current currency rates. ARR grew in fiscal year 2024 by 13%, or 14% on a constant currency basis.

Free Cash Flow

We monitor our free cash flow as a key measure of our overall business performance, which enables us to analyze our financial performance without the effects of certain non-cash items such as depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation expenses. Additionally, free cash flow takes into account the impact of changes in deferred revenue, which reflects the receipt of cash payment for products before they are recognized as revenue, and unbilled accounts receivable, which reflects revenue that has been recognized that has yet to be invoiced to our customers. Our net cash provided by (used in) operating activities is significantly impacted by the timing of invoicing and collections of accounts receivable, the timing and amount of annual bonus payments, as well as payroll and tax payments. Our capital expenditures consist of purchases of property and equipment, primarily computer hardware, software, and leasehold improvements, and capitalized software development costs. Free cash flow improved in fiscal year 2024 from fiscal year 2023 primarily due to our lower net loss and increased cash collections from customers. For a further discussion of our operating cash flows, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Flows.”

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Accounting policies, methods, and estimates are an integral part of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP and, in part, are based upon management’s current judgments. Those judgments are normally based on knowledge and experience with regard to past and current events and assumptions about future events. Certain accounting policies, methods, and estimates are particularly sensitive because of their significance to our consolidated financial statements and because of the possibility that future events affecting them may differ markedly from management’s current judgments. While there are a number of significant accounting policies, methods, and estimates affecting our consolidated financial statements, which are described in Note 1 “The Company and a Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our revenue recognition policies are critical to the periods presented.

Revenue Recognition

Revenue recognition requires judgment and the use of estimates, especially in identifying and evaluating the various non-standard terms and conditions in our contracts with customers as to their effect on reported revenue. 

Our revenue is derived from contracts with customers. The majority of our revenue is derived from subscriptions to our cloud services, licensing arrangements for our software, and implementation and other professional services arrangements. We account for revenue in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”). The core principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue upon the transfer of services or products to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those services or products. We apply a five-step framework to recognize revenue as described in our Revenue Recognition policy included in Note 1 of our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our customers have significant negotiating power during the sales process, which can and does result in terms and conditions that are different from our standard terms and conditions. When terms and conditions of our customer contracts are not standard, certain negotiated terms may require significant judgment in order to determine the appropriate revenue recognition in accordance with ASC 606. 

The estimates and assumptions requiring significant judgment under our revenue policy in accordance with ASC 606 are as follows:

Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract

If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation. Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its standalone selling price (“SSP”) in relation to the total fair value of all performance obligations in the arrangement. Some of our performance obligations, such as support, implementation services, and training services, have observable inputs that are used to determine the SSP of those distinct performance obligations. Where SSP is not directly observable, we determine the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. In the circumstances when available information to determine SSP is highly variable or uncertain, such as for our term licenses, we will use the residual method. 

The majority of our contracts contain multiple performance obligations, such as when licenses are sold with support, implementation services or training services. As customers enter into a subscription agreement to migrate from an existing term license agreement, customers may be under contract for self-managed licenses and support, in addition to subscription services, for a period of time, which may require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation. New and migration subscription agreements also typically include implementation, configuration, and training services, which may require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation.

Additionally, contract modifications for products that are distinct but are not priced commensurate with their SSP or are not distinct from the existing contract may affect the initial transaction price or the allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. In such cases, revenue recognized may be adjusted.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 1 “The Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements adopted, including the dates of adoption, and recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted.

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth our results of operations for the years presented. The data has been derived from the consolidated financial statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results of operations for any period should not be considered indicative of results for any future period.

Comparison of the Fiscal Years Ended July 31, 2024 and 2023

Revenue

We derive our revenue primarily from delivering cloud-based services, licensing our software applications, providing support, and delivering professional services.

Subscription and Support

A growing portion of our revenue consists of fees for our subscription services, which are generally priced based on the amount of DWP that is managed by our subscription services. Subscription revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, beginning at the point in time our provisioning process has been completed and access has been made available to the customer. The initial term of such arrangements is generally from three to five years. Subscription agreements contain optional annual renewals commencing upon the expiration of the initial contract term. A majority of our subscription customers are billed annually in advance. In some arrangements with multiple performance obligations, a portion of recurring subscription contract value may be allocated to 

license revenue or services revenue for revenue recognition purposes. For example, in arrangements with multiple performance obligations that include services at discounted rates, a portion of the total contract value related to subscription services will be allocated and recognized as services revenue. Additionally, agreements to migrate an existing term license customer to subscription services contain multiple performance obligations, including a provision to continue using the term license during the subscription service implementation period. Under these migration agreements, a portion of the total contract value related to subscription services could be allocated and recognized as term license and support revenue in the period renewed or delivered.

Our support revenue is generally recognized ratably over the committed support term of the licensed software. Our support fees are typically priced as a fixed percentage of the associated term license fees. We generally invoice support annually in advance. Support related to subscription arrangements is included in subscription revenue, as support is not quoted or priced separately from the subscription services. 

License

A substantial majority of our license revenue consists of term license fees. Our term license revenue is primarily generated through license fees that are billed annually in advance during the term of the contract, including any renewals. Our term license fees are generally priced based on the amount of DWP that will be managed by our licensed software. Our term licenses are sold under an initial term with optional annual renewals after the initial term. Term license revenue for the committed term of the customer agreement is generally fully recognized upon delivery of the software or at the beginning of the renewal term. We do enter into license arrangements that have an initial term of two or more years and renewal terms of more than one year which results in significantly higher revenue in the initial year of the committed term than arrangements for our subscription services 

Services

Our services revenue is primarily derived from implementation and migration services performed for our customers, reimbursable travel expenses, and training fees. A majority of our services engagements are billed and revenue is recognized on a time and materials basis upon providing our services.

Subscription and Support 

We anticipate subscriptions will continue to represent a significant majority of new arrangements, including customers migrating from existing term license arrangements to subscription services, in future periods. Due to the ratable recognition of subscription revenue, growth in subscription revenue will lag behind the growth of subscription orders and will impact the comparative growth of our reported revenue on a year-over-year basis. If we complete a higher percentage of subscription arrangements towards the end of a given period, our short-term growth rates will be negatively impacted. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, the impact of new subscription orders in our fourth fiscal quarter, our historically largest quarter for new orders, is not fully reflected in revenue until the following fiscal year.

Subscription revenue increased by $125.3 million compared to the prior year primarily due to the impact of new subscription agreements and cloud transition agreements entered into and provisioned since July 31, 2023 of $101.0 million, and the renewal or extension of subscription services at the fully ramped annual fees after the initial committed term of $24.9 million.

Support revenue decreased by $5.9 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to customers migrating from on-premise term licenses to subscription services. Support related to subscription arrangements is included in subscription revenue, as support is not quoted or priced separately from the subscription services. As customers enter into a subscription agreement to migrate from an existing term license agreement, the timing and amount of revenue recognized will be impacted by allocations of the total contract value between the license, subscription, and support performance obligations. As a result, we expect the increase in subscription orders as a percentage of total new sales and customers migrating from term licenses to subscription services will result in lower support revenue in the future.

License

Revenue related to new term licenses and multi-year term license renewals is generally recognized upfront and, as a result, no additional license revenue is recognized until after the committed term expires. As a customer enters into a subscription agreement to migrate from an existing term license agreement, the timing and amount of revenue recognition will be impacted by allocations of total contract value between license, subscription, and support performance obligations. License revenue growth has and will be negatively impacted as subscription sales increase as a percentage of total new sales and as customers migrate from term licenses to subscription services instead of renewing their term licenses.

Term license revenue decreased by $16.5 million compared to the prior year primarily due to agreements that migrated from a term license to a subscription service in the prior year, partially offset by higher renewals and expansion orders within our existing customer base. Ongoing revenue related to migration agreements is recorded as subscription revenue. The impact on term license revenue from contracts with an initial term of greater than two years or a renewal term of greater than one year was $2.7 million during fiscal year 2024, as compared to $7.6 million in the prior year.

Services

Services revenue decreased by $28.8 million compared to the prior year. Services revenue was impacted by the completion of implementations, partially offset by an increase from new and existing subscription implementation and migration projects. Services revenue overall continues to be impacted by contracts with lower average services billing rates and investments in customer implementations, including fixed fee or capped arrangements, to accelerate customer transition to the cloud. In these arrangements when a project extends longer than originally anticipated, the average billing rate we recognize may decrease, which can result in revenue adjustments and lower gross profit. Additionally, our SI partners are leading more new subscription implementation and migration projects than in the past. 

As we successfully leverage our SI partners to lead more implementations and migrations, we expect our services revenue could be flat or decline in the near-term. As we continue to expand into new markets and develop new products, we have, and may continue to, enter into contracts with lower average billing rates, make investments in customer implementation and migration engagements, and enter into fixed price contracts, which may impact services revenue and services margin.

Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit

Our cost of subscription and support revenue primarily consists of personnel costs for our cloud operations and technical support teams, cloud infrastructure costs, development of online training curriculum, amortization of intangible assets, and royalty fees paid to third parties. Our cost of license revenue primarily consists of development of online training curriculum, royalty fees paid to third parties, and amortization of intangible assets. Our cost of services revenue primarily consists of personnel costs for our professional service employees, third-party subcontractors or consultants, and travel costs. In instances where we have primary responsibility for the delivery of services, subcontractor fees are expensed as cost of services revenue. In each case, personnel costs include salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation.

We allocate overhead such as information technology infrastructure and software expenses, information security infrastructure and software expenses, and facilities expenses to all functional departments based on headcount. As such, these general overhead expenses are reflected in cost of revenue and each functional operating expense. 

Cost of Revenue:

The $5.7 million decrease in cost of subscription and support revenue was primarily due to decreases in professional services of $5.2 million, personnel costs of $4.1 million due to lower headcount, and amortization of intangibles of $1.4 million due to certain acquired intangible assets being fully amortized. These decreases were partially offset by increases in royalties of $1.9 million, cloud infrastructure expense of $1.8 million for our growing cloud usage and customer base, and internal-use software amortization of $1.3 million.

Cloud hosting costs are benefiting from the efficiencies that we are achieving from our development efforts associated with our GWCP platform and the cost benefits associated with the five-year agreement with a cloud infrastructure services provider that was entered into in the second quarter of fiscal year 2023. As a result of efficiencies that we are seeing from our previous investments in cloud operations and development efforts, we are critically evaluating headcount additions, professional services contracts, and third-party software costs, along with other investment opportunities. However, we expect cost of subscription and support revenue to increase in absolute dollars due to the increased number of customers utilizing our cloud services, the volume of transactions by our cloud customers, and the impact of inflation and other macroeconomic events.

The $2.0 million decrease in our cost of license revenue was primarily due to a decrease in personnel costs associated with the development of online training curriculum included with the latest releases of InsuranceSuite of $1.6 million and royalties of $0.4 million.

We continue to anticipate lower cost of license revenue over time as our term license customers transition to cloud subscription agreements.

The $42.3 million decrease in cost of services revenue was primarily due to decreases in subcontractor expenses of $44.4 million, and software subscriptions, travel expenses, professional services, and web hosting costs of $1.3 million. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in personnel expenses of $3.4 million, which includes severance payments of $3.3 million.

We had 613 cloud operations and technical support employees and 750 professional service employees as of July 31, 2024 compared to 648 cloud operations and technical support employees and 784 professional services employees as of July 31, 2023.

Gross Profit

Our gross profit increased by $125.2 million compared to the prior year. Gross profit was impacted by an increase in subscription and support gross profit due to the increase in subscription revenue and cloud operations efficiencies. License gross profit decreased as a result of lower revenue primarily from our customers migrating from licenses to cloud subscriptions. The decrease in license gross profit was offset by lower services negative margin.

Our gross margin increased to 59% in fiscal year 2024, as compared to 51% in fiscal year 2023. Gross margin was primarily impacted by the increase in subscription and support revenue at a higher margin due to cloud operations efficiencies and lower services negative margin.

We expect subscription and support gross margin to continue to improve, though at a slower rate than in fiscal year 2024, over the next several years as we gain additional efficiencies and increase the number of cloud customers. We expect services gross margin will improve as we lower our reliance on subcontractors and enter into fewer fixed fee arrangements. We expect license gross profit and license gross margin to decline based on changes in revenue due to customers migrating from licenses to subscription services, the timing of delivery of new multi-year term licenses and the execution of multi-year term license renewals, as cost of license revenue is expected to be relatively consistent from period to period in the future. Overall, we expect gross margins to continue to improve over time as improvements in subscription and support gross margin and services gross margin will more than offset the negative impact of revenue shifts away from high margin license revenue.

Operating Expenses

Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. The largest components of our operating expenses are personnel costs for our employees and, to a lesser extent, professional services. In each case, personnel costs include salaries, bonuses, commissions, benefits, and stock-based compensation. 

We allocate overhead such as information technology infrastructure and software expenses, information security infrastructure and software expenses, and facilities expenses to all functional departments based on headcount. As such, these general overhead expenses are reflected in cost of revenue and each functional operating expense.

Research and Development

Our research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel costs for our technical staff and consultants providing professional services. 

The $19.6 million increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to increases in personnel costs of $20.1 million due to higher headcount, software subscription costs of $1.8 million, travel costs of $1.2 million, and professional services of $0.6 million. These increases were partially offset by decreases in acquisition holdback of $2.8 million and cloud hosting costs of $1.3 million. Cloud hosting costs are benefiting from the efficiencies that we are achieving with GWCP and the five-year agreement with a cloud infrastructure services provider that was entered into in the second quarter of fiscal year 2023.

Our research and development headcount was 1,169 as of July 31, 2024, as compared to 1,069 as of July 31, 2023.

We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars due to inflation and investments to support our growing customer base, but decrease as a percentage of revenue after our recent period of significant investment in cloud platform capabilities as overall hiring slows, and we focus on hiring in lower cost regions. We continue to dedicate internal resources to develop, improve, and expand the functionality of our solutions and migrate our solutions to the cloud. Research and development expenses may also increase if we pursue additional acquisitions.

Sales and Marketing

Our sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of personnel costs for our sales and marketing employees. Included in our personnel costs are commissions, which are considered contract acquisition costs and are capitalized when earned and expensed over the anticipated period of time that goods and services are expected to be provided to a customer, which we estimate to be approximately five years. Sales and marketing expenses also include travel expenses, professional services for marketing activities, and amortization of certain acquired intangibles. 

The $10.8 million increase in sales and marketing expenses was primarily due to increases in personnel costs of $11.4 million due to higher headcount, including $2.1 million related to contract acquisition costs, travel costs of $1.1 million due to more in-person client interactions, software subscriptions of $0.3 million, and professional services costs of $0.1 million. These increases were partially offset by decreases in marketing and advertising costs of $1.5 million and cloud hosting costs of $0.6 million.

Our sales and marketing headcount was 477 as of July 31, 2024, as compared to 463 as of July 31, 2023.

We expect our sales and marketing expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars due to inflation and investments to support ongoing growth, but decrease as a percentage of revenue as overall hiring slows after our recent period of investment to build out our customer success team and add analytics and cloud sales capabilities.

General and Administrative

Our general and administrative expenses include executive, finance, human resources, information technology, information security, legal, facilities, and corporate development and strategy functions, and primarily consist of personnel costs and, to a lesser extent, professional services, software costs, and cloud hosting costs.

The $2.2 million decrease in our general and administrative expenses was primarily due to decreases in facilities costs of $11.0 million primarily due to the assignment of the lease agreement for our previous headquarters and concurrent sublease for less space in San Mateo, California during the third quarter of fiscal year 2023 and cloud hosting costs of $0.7 million. These decreases were partially offset by increases in personnel costs of $4.9 million due to higher headcount, professional services costs of $3.3 million, and software subscription costs of $1.3 million.

Our general and administrative headcount was 460 as of July 31, 2024, as compared to 451 as of July 31, 2023. General and administrative headcount includes facilities personnel whose expenses are allocated across all functional departments.

We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars due to inflation and investments required to support our strategic initiatives, grow our business, and meet our product and information security, compliance and reporting obligations, but decrease as a percentage of revenue as overall hiring and investments slow.

Other Income (Expense)

Interest Income

Interest income represents interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and investments. 

Interest income increased by $19.1 million in fiscal year 2024, primarily due to higher interest rates on invested funds.

Interest Expense

Interest expense includes both stated interest and the amortization of debt issuance costs associated with our Convertible Senior Notes. The amortization of debt issuance costs are recognized on an effective interest basis. Stated interest expense is consistent in the comparative periods as the outstanding principal and stated interest rate have not changed. 

Interest expense for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2024 and 2023 consists of stated interest of $5.0 million and non-cash interest expense of $1.7 million related to amortization of debt issuance costs. 

Other Income (Expense), Net

Other income (expense), net includes foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates on monetary asset and monetary liability balances that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity in which they are recorded. Our monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity in which they are recorded consist primarily of trade accounts receivable, unbilled accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables. Other income (expense) also includes changes in the fair value of our strategic investments. 

We have significant transactions in the following currencies: Australian Dollar, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Euro, Indian Rupee, and Polish Zloty.

Other income (expense), net in fiscal year 2024 was expense of $11.0 million compared to expense of $2.3 million in fiscal year 2023. The increase was due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and a change in the fair value of one of our strategic investments. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2024, one of our strategic investments was acquired by a privately held limited partnership. As a result, we received $12.1 million in consideration for our equity interest in the investee, composed of $6.5 million in cash and $5.6 million of an ownership interest in the privately held limited partnership, and recognized a $1.8 million gain in excess of cost in other income (expense), net.

Provision for (benefit from) Income Taxes

We are subject to taxes in the United States as well as other tax jurisdictions and countries in which we conduct business. Earnings from our non-U.S. activities are subject to local country income tax and may also be subject to U.S. income tax. 

We recognized an income tax benefit of $20.7 million for fiscal year 2024 compared to $22.2 million for fiscal year 2023. The decrease in our income tax benefit for fiscal year 2024 was primarily due to a decrease in pre-tax net loss, offset by an increase in deductions from stock-based compensation, the foreign derived intangible income deduction, and an increase in research and development tax credits.

As of July 31, 2024, we had unrecognized tax benefits of $13.1 million that, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate, as certain unrecognized tax benefits have a valuation allowance.

The effective tax rate differs from the statutory U.S. Federal income tax rate of 21% primarily due to state taxes, permanent differences for stock-based compensation including excess tax benefits, research and development credits, foreign earnings taxed in the U.S., the foreign derived intangible income deduction, a change in valuation allowance and certain non-deductible expenses, including, but not limited to, executive compensation limitation.

Comparison of the Fiscal Years Ended July 31, 2023 and 2022 

Refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located in our 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2023, filed on September 18, 2023, for the discussion of the comparison of the fiscal year ended July 31, 2023 to the fiscal year ended July 31, 2022, the earliest of the three fiscal years presented in the consolidated financial statements.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

In addition to the key business metrics presented above, we believe that the following non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to management and investors regarding certain financial and business trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to compare our performance to that of prior periods for trend analysis, for purposes of determining executive and senior management incentive compensation, and for budgeting and planning purposes. We believe that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides an additional tool for investors to use in evaluating ongoing operating results and trends and in comparing our financial results with other software companies because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance and assists in comparisons with other companies, many of which present similar non-GAAP financial measures to investors. However, our management does not consider these non-GAAP measures in isolation or as an alternative to financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP.

The non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from similarly-titled non-GAAP measures used by other companies. The principal limitation of these non-GAAP financial measures is that they exclude significant expenses and income that are required by GAAP to be recorded in our financial statements. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgment by management about which expenses and income are excluded or included in determining these non-GAAP financial measures. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included herein and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate the Company’s business.

The following table reconciles the specific items excluded from GAAP in the calculation of non-GAAP financial measures for the periods indicated below (in thousands, except share and per share data):

During the three months ended April 31, 2023, the Company recorded in general and administrative expenses a net loss of $8.5 million related to the assignment of the lease agreement for the remaining lease term of the Company’s previous headquarters. The loss is comprised of an $18.4 million gain from the de-recognition of the operating lease asset of $56.9 million, the de-recognition of the lease liability of $75.5 million, and other expenses related to the lease assignment of $0.2 million, offset by accelerated depreciation expense related to property and equipment, primarily consisting of leasehold improvements, at the previous headquarters of $26.9 million. Prior to the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, there were no transactions similar to the lease assignment in any periods presented.

During the three months ended January 31, 2024, one of Guidewire’s strategic investments was acquired by a privately-held limited partnership. As a result, Guidewire received $12.1 million in consideration for its equity interest in the investee, composed of $6.5 million in cash and $5.6 million of an ownership interest in the privately-held limited partnership, and recognized a $1.8 million gain in excess of cost in other income (expense), net. Prior to the second quarter of fiscal year 2024, there were no transactions similar to the gain on sale of strategic investment in any periods presented.

During the fiscal year ended July 31, 2024, the Company's Convertible Notes were dilutive due to non-GAAP net income. Accordingly, interest expense related to the Convertible Notes was excluded from the non-GAAP net income (loss) per share calculation under the “if-converted” method.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our principal sources of liquidity are as follows (in thousands):

Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments

Our cash and cash equivalents are comprised of cash and liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less from the date of purchase, primarily commercial paper and money market funds. Our investments primarily consist of corporate debt securities, U.S. government and agency debt securities, commercial paper, asset-backed securities, and non-U.S. government securities, which include state, municipal and foreign government securities. 

As of July 31, 2024, approximately $75.1 million of our cash and cash equivalents were domiciled in foreign jurisdictions. We may repatriate foreign earnings to the United States in the future to the extent that the repatriation is not restricted by local laws or there are no substantial incremental costs associated with such repatriation.

Working Capital

Our working capital decreased to $457.9 million as of July 31, 2024 compared to $726.3 million as of July 31, 2023, primarily due to the Convertible Senior Notes becoming current during fiscal year 2024. Our Convertible Senior Notes are due in March 2025. We have the ability to settle the principal and any conversion premium in cash, equity, or a combination of both.

Share Repurchase Program

In September 2022, our board of directors authorized and approved a share repurchase program of up to $400.0 million of our outstanding common stock. During fiscal year 2024, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock due to the market price of our shares. As of July 31, 2024, $138.2 million remained available for future share repurchases under the authorized and approved share repurchase program.

During fiscal year 2023, the Company repurchased 4,041,284 shares of common stock at an average price of $64.78 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $261.8 million.

Cash Flows

Our cash flows from operations are significantly impacted by timing of invoicing and collections of accounts receivable, annual bonus payments, as well as payments of payroll, commissions, payroll taxes, and other taxes. We expect that we will generate positive cash flows from operations on an annual basis in the future, although this may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. In particular, we typically use more cash during our first fiscal quarter, which is the quarter ending October 31, as we generally pay cash bonuses to our employees for the prior fiscal year and seasonally higher sales commissions from increased customer orders booked in our fourth fiscal quarter of the prior year. Additionally, our capital expenditures may fluctuate depending on future office build outs and development activities subject to capitalization. 

We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and sources of liquidity will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. Our future cash requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our spending to support our research and development and cloud operations efforts, investments in cloud infrastructure, cybersecurity, and operating costs, and expansion into other markets. We also may invest in or acquire complementary businesses, applications or technologies, or may execute on a board-authorized share repurchase program, which may require the use of significant cash resources and/or additional financing.

The following summary of cash flows for the periods indicated has been derived from our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (in thousands):

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $157.4 million in fiscal year 2024 as compared to fiscal year 2023. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to an $90.6 million decrease in net loss after excluding the impact of non-cash charges such as deferred taxes, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization expense, and other non-cash items and a decrease of $66.8 million in cash used by working capital activities.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities increased by $65.1 million in fiscal year 2024 as compared to fiscal year 2023. The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to higher net purchases of available-for-sale securities transactions of $80.1 million, higher capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs of $1.1 million, offset by an increase of $6.6 million in proceeds from the sale of strategic investments and $9.5 million due to a decrease in the acquisition of new strategic investments.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Net cash provided by financing activities increased by $262.6 million in fiscal year 2024 as compared to fiscal year 2023. The increase in cash provided by financing activities was primarily because of $261.8 million of shares repurchased under the authorized and approved share repurchase program in fiscal year 2023 while no shares were repurchased during fiscal year 2024, and an increase in proceeds from option exercises of $0.8 million.

Commitments and Contractual Obligations

Our estimated future obligations consist of leases, royalties, purchase obligations, debt, and taxes as of July 31, 2024. Refer to Note 7 ‘’Leases,’’ Note 8 “Commitments and Contingencies” and Note 10 “Income Taxes” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.

Effective during the fiscal year ended July 31, 2023, we entered into an agreement with a cloud infrastructure services provider for a total obligation of $600 million over a five-year period.

Effective during the fiscal year ended July 31, 2023, we assigned the remaining lease term of our previous headquarters and concurrently entered into a sublease for office space in San Mateo, California with the same third party for our new worldwide headquarters.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Through July 31, 2024, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative