. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The following discussion relates to the historical operations and financial statements of Hawkeye Systems, Inc. for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024.

Forward-Looking Statements

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report. The Management’s Discussion and Analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words “believe,” “plan,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “target,” “estimate,” “expect,” and the like, and/or future-tense or conditional constructions (“will,” “may,” “could,” “should,” etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements in this annual report. Our actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results and outcomes include, without limitation, those specifically addressed under the heading “Risks Factors” in our various filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this annual report.

Financial Condition and Results of Operations

We have incurred recurring losses to date. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern and, accordingly, do not include adjustments relating to the recoverability and realization of assets and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue our operations. 

We expect we will require additional capital to develop our business plan. We expect to raise additional capital through, among other things, the sale of equity or debt securities in the near future.

Results of Operations

Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2024 and 2023

The Company had $0 operating revenues for both fiscal years of 2024, and 2023 after the Company ceased operations of its PPE business in July 2021. The Company generated from CNTNR a total of $45,000 and $70,000 for the year ended June 30, 2024, and 2023 in other income, of which $45,000, and 20,000 were generated for consulting fees, and $0, and $50,000 for financing arrangement fees, respectively. See further discussion on Note 10– Note receivable to the Financial Statements.

During our fiscal year 2024, total operating expenses were $373,390 compared to $1,118,537 for the same period in 2023. The decrease in operating expenses is primarily a result of a decrease in Selling, General, and Administrative expenses due to company downsizing. The Company’s net loss was $578,717 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 compared to net loss of $1,226,311 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023. The net losses are primarily a result of operating expenses, and interest expenses. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our cash balance at June 30, 2024 was zero compared to $143,861 at June 30, 2023. We do not believe these cash reserves are sufficient to cover our expenses for our operations for the next 12 months. We will require additional funding for our ongoing operations.

During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024, and 2023, we received $45,250, and $250,000, from a line of credit from a related party, respectively. The outstanding balance was settled with the Debt Consolidation Agreement. See further discussion on Note 11 - Debt Consolidation Agreement.

In addition, in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024, and 2023, we received $994,623, and $1,000,000 from a promissory note issued by a related party, respectively. 

On April 1, 2024, the Company settled $250,000 in accounts payable, and $33,218 in accrued expenses with a related party with the Debt Consolidation Agreement. See further discussion on Note 11 – Debt Consolidation Agreement.

During our fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, the Company issued common stock valued at $624,344 in connection with settlements of stock payable, which included $594,344 associated with the settlement of a convertible promissory note with Steve Hall, and $30,000 related to settlements of compensation due to Richard Cutler for $20,000, and Christopher Mulgrew for $10,000. 

In addition, we intend to raise funds through the sale of equity and debt securities. If we cannot raise any additional financing prior to the expiration of the first quarter of 2024, we believe we will be able to obtain loans from management in the future, if necessary, but have no agreement in writing.

We are a smaller reporting company and have accumulated losses to date. Under a limited operations scenario to maintain our corporate existence, we believe we will require additional funds over the next 12 months to complete our regulatory reporting and filings. However, we will require maximum participation through private placements, or alternative financing to implement our business plan.

There are no assurances that we will be able to obtain further funds required for our continued operations. Even if additional financing is available, it may not be available on terms we find favorable. Failure to secure the needed additional financing will have an adverse effect on our ability to remain in business.

Plan of Operation and Funding

We expect that working capital requirements will continue to be funded through equity offerings, warrant exercises, and related party advances in the near future. We have no guarantees or firm commitments that the related party advances will continue in the near future. 

Existing working capital, further advances, together with anticipated capital raises are expected to be adequate to fund our operations over the next twelve months, but there is no guarantee that we will be successful in raising enough capital, or that we will receive the cash flow required to fund our operations. We have no lines of credit with banking institutions or other bank financing arrangements. Generally, we have financed operations to date through proceeds from convertible loans. 

Additional issuances of equity or convertible debt securities will result in dilution to our current shareholders. Further, such securities might have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to our common stock. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue our operations.

Material Commitments

As of the date of this annual report, we have entered into various commitments on loan obligations or capital options. For a discussion of the related items, please see Notes 5 to 10 to the Financial Statements. 

Purchase of Significant Equipment

We do not intend to purchase any significant equipment during the next twelve months. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of the date of this annual report, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors.

Going Concern

As reflected in the accompanying financial statements, the Company had an accumulated deficit of approximately $12,687,204 at June 30, 2024 and net loss from operations of $578,717.

The Company does not yet have a history of financial stability. Historically, the principal source of liquidity has been the issuance of equity securities, proceeds from convertible loans, and related party advances. In addition, the Company is in the development stage and has accumulated losses since inception. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

The ability of the Company to continue operations is dependent on the success of Management’s plans and raising of capital through the issuance of equity securities, until such time that funds provided by operations are sufficient to fund working capital requirements.

The Company will require additional funding to finance its operations as well as to identify, negotiate and materialize a business combination with a target business. The Company believes its current available cash may be insufficient to meet its cash needs for the near future. There can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or terms acceptable to the Company, if at all.

The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. These financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recovery of the recorded assets or the classification of the liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

For a discussion of our accounting policies and related items, please see the Notes to the Financial Statements, included in Item 8.