ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations, whose actual outcomes involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those stated in or implied by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in the sections entitled “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”, and elsewhere in this Report.

Overview

We are a key provider of technology, products, and services to movie theater operators and sports and entertainment venues. 

Factors affecting our performance

Effect of COVID-19 global pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has had an unprecedented impact on the world and the movie exhibition industry. The social and economic effects have been widespread. At various points during the pandemic, authorities around the world-imposed measures intended to control the spread of COVID-19, including stay-at-home orders and restrictions on large public gatherings, which caused movie theaters in countries around the world to temporarily close. The repercussions of the COVID-19 global pandemic resulted in a significant impact on our customers, specifically those in the entertainment and cinema industries. As a result, the Company implemented various cash preservation strategies, including, but not limited to, temporary personnel and salary reductions, halting non-essential operating and capital expenditures, and negotiating modified timing and/or abatement of contractual payments with landlords and other major suppliers.

Throughout 2020 and 2021 the theatres reopened as soon as local restrictions, and the status of the COVID-19 pandemic would allow. As of June 30, 2024, a large majority of domestic and international theatres were open. The industry’s recovery to historical levels of new film content, both in terms of the number of new films and box office performance, is still underway, as the industry also continues to adjust to evolving theatrical release windows, competition from streaming and other delivery platforms, supply chain delays, inflationary pressures, labor shortages, wage rate pressures and other economic factors.

Based on our current estimates of recovery, we believe we have, and will generate, sufficient cash to sustain operations. Nonetheless, the COVID-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have, adverse effects on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Investment in growth. Based on 2024 losses, we will selectively invest in expanding our operations. We expect our total operating expenses to decrease in the foreseeable future to meet our revenue and cost control objectives. We plan to invest in our sales and support operations to support our new product initiatives and budget goals.

Adding New Customers and Expanding Sales to Our Existing Customer Base. We intend to target new customers by selectively investing in our field sales force. We also intend to continue to target large customers’ organizations who have yet to use our products and services. A typical initial order involves educating prospective customers about the technical merits and capabilities and potential cost savings of our products and services as compared to our competitors’ products. We believe that customer references 

have been, and will continue to be, an important factor in winning new business. We expect that a substantial portion of our future sales will be sales to existing customers, including expansion of their product and service offerings, as we offer new products and services through the existing sales channel. Our business and results of operations will depend on our ability to continue to add new customers and sell additional products and services to our growing base of customers.

Promoting our Brand and Offering Additional Products. Our future performance will depend on our continued ability to achieve brand recognition for our proprietary line of products. We plan to selectively increase our marketing expenditures to continue to create and maintain prominent brand awareness. Also, our future performance will depend on our ability to continue to offer high quality, high performance and high functionality products and services. We intend to continue to devote efforts to introduce new products and services including new versions of our existing product lines. We expect that our results of operations will be impacted by the timing, size and level of success of these brand awareness and product and service offering efforts.

Ability to Maintain Gross Margins. Our gross margins have been and are expected to continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including competition, the timing of changes in pricing, shipment volumes, new product introductions, changes in product mixes, changes in our purchase price of components and assembly and test service costs and inventory write downs, if any. Our goal is to strive to maintain gross profits for products that may have a declining average selling price by continuing to focus on increased sales volume and looking to reduce operating costs. Decreases in average selling prices are primarily driven by competition and by reduced demand for products that face potential or actual technological obsolescence. We also focus on managing our inventory to reduce our overall exposure to price erosion. In addition, we seek to introduce new products and services with higher gross margins to offset the potential effect of price erosion on other lines of products. For example, we have recently productized and began marketing a new system which combines full compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act with a multi-language capability — we expect this system will have higher margins than a substantial number of existing products we offer. In addition, we expect our offerings of Direct View LED screens to also carry significantly higher margins.

Fluctuations in Revenues and Earnings. Both the sales cycle and the contract fulfillment cycle are dependent on a number of factors from our customers that are not in our control. Accordingly, backlog, the recognition of backlog into revenue and related earnings may fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending on our customers’ particular requirements, which can sometimes change between the initial signing of a contract to its ultimate fulfillment.

Net sales

The principal factors that have affected or could affect our net sales from period to period are:

Cost of goods sold

Cost of goods sold includes the cost of products or components that we purchase from third party manufacturers plus assembly and packaging labor costs for these third parties or in-house designed products. Cost of goods sold is also affected by inventory obsolescence if our inventory management is not effective or efficient. We mitigate the risk of inventory obsolescence by stocking relatively small amounts of inventory at any given time, and relying instead on a strategy of manufacturing or acquiring products based on orders placed by our customers.

General and administrative expenses

General and administrative expenses relate primarily to compensation and associated expenses for personnel in general management, information technology, human resources, procurement, planning and finance, as well as outside legal, investor relations, accounting, consulting and other operating expenses.

Selling and marketing expenses

Selling and marketing expenses relate primarily to salary and other compensation and associated expenses for internal sales and customer relations personnel, advertising, outbound shipping and freight costs, tradeshows, royalties under a brand license, and selling commissions.

Research and development expenses

Research and development expenses consist of compensation and associated costs of employees engaged in research and development projects, as well as materials and equipment used for these projects, and third-party compensation for research and development services. We do not engage in any long-term research and development contracts, and all research and development costs are expensed as incurred.

Results of Operations

Year ended June 30, 2024 compared to year ended June 30, 2023

Net sales

​

Net revenues decreased 0.3% to $20.14 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 from $20.21 million for the prior fiscal year primarily due to the protracted SAG/AFTRA strike. Backlog at June 30, 2024 was approximately $5.93 million, which represent orders currently planned for March 31, 2025 shipment. Backlog at June 30, 2023 was $12.02 million. 

Gross Profit

​

Along with the revenue decline for the year ended June 30, 2024, gross profit decreased 11.8% to $4.68 million or by $0.63 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 from $5.31 million for the prior fiscal year. As a percentage of total revenues, gross margin decreased to 23.3% for the year ended June 30, 2024 from 26.3% for the prior year. The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenues was driven primarily by product mix, as lower margin seat revenues made up a larger percentage of total revenues. 

Research and Development

​

The $16,000 increase in research and development expense was in line with the expected research and development expense as we continue to increase product development on our SaaS (software as a service) products, Caddy products, and others as our business expands into new areas.

Selling, General and Administrative Expense

​

2024 Selling, General and Administrative expense decreased by $107,000 or 1.8% compared to 2023 primarily due to lower legal, SEC edgarizing, D&O insurance and other public company compliance spending in 2024.

​

Impairment of Long Term Assets

​

​

​

Interest and Other (Expense)/Income

​

The Company earned interest in 2024 compared to investment and interest income in 2023. To reduce volatility in investments and assure stable returns, the Company liquidated its marketable securities portfolio in March 2023 and placed the proceeds into a savings account.

​

Net Loss

​

Net loss of $(1.37) million for the year ended June 30, 2024 compared to a net loss of $(1.80) million for the prior year improved by $0.43 million. This net loss decrease was largely due to the nonrecurring 2023 $(0.95) million Impairment of Long Term Assets, offset primarily by lower gross margin of $0.63 million in 2024.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

During the past several years, we have primarily met our working capital and capital resource needs from our operating cash flows and financing activities. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, including cash and operating cash flow, will be sufficient to meet our projected capital needs for the foreseeable future. Our cash balance at June 30, 2024 was approximately $5.28 million, as compared to $6.62 million at June 30, 2023. 

In response to uncertainties associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, we took significant steps to preserve cash and remain in a strong competitive position for when the crisis subsided. From 2020 to 2022 the theatres reopened as soon as local restrictions and the status of the COVID-19 pandemic would allow. As of June 30, 2024, a large majority of domestic and international theatres were open. The industry’s recovery to historical levels of new film content, both in terms of the number of new films and box office performance, is still underway, as the industry also continues to adjust to evolving theatrical release windows, competition from streaming and other delivery platforms, supply chain delays, inflationary pressures, labor shortages, wage rate pressures and other economic factors.

Based on the Company’s current estimates of recovery, it believes it has, and will generate, sufficient cash to sustain operations. Nonetheless, the COVID-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have, adverse effects on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Net cash used in operating activities was $(0.80) million for year ended June 30, 2024, primarily due to $(0.60) million in working capital decreases along with the $(1.37) million in net losses and offset by $1.17 million in other non-cash expenses. Within the $(0.60) million working capital decrease, cash used by operations included accounts receivable, prepaid expenses, customer deposits, lease liabilities and offset primarily by changes in inventory, accounts payable, accrued expenses. 

For the year ended June 30, 2023, net cash provided by operating activities was $0.27 million, primarily due to $0.67 million in working capital increases along with the $(1.80) million operating loss and offset by $1.40 million in other non-cash expenses. 

Within the $0.67 million working capital increases, cash provided by operations primarily included lower accounts receivable and prepaid expenses and higher accrued expenses.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

For the year ended June 30, 2024, net cash used by investing activities was $(0.01) million for the year ended June 30, 2024 related to information technology asset upgrades. For the year ended June 30, 2023, net cash provided by investing activities was $(4.31) million due to sales of marketable securities.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

For the year ended June 30, 2024 and the year ended June 30, 2023, net cash used by financing activities of $(0.53) million and $(0.30) million, respectively, due to the stock buyback program during both years. 

Financial Instruments and Credit Risk Concentrations

Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 45% and 37% of net revenues for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Trade accounts receivable from these customers represented approximately 62% and 19% of net receivables at June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. While we believe our relationships with such customers are stable, most arrangements are made by purchase order and are terminable at will by either party. We could also be adversely affected by such factors as changes in foreign currency rates and weak economic and political conditions in each of the countries in which we sell our products.

Financial instruments that potentially expose us to a concentration of credit risk principally consist of accounts receivable and notes receivable. We sell products to a large number of customers in many different geographic regions. To minimize credit concentration risk, we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition or use letters of credit.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations

Our contractual obligations consist principally of leasing equipment and facilities under operating leases. The future estimated payments under these arrangements are summarized below:

​

There were no other material contractual obligations other than inventory, property and production and computer equipment purchases in the ordinary course of business.

Seasonality

Our operating results can vary from quarter to quarter as a result of seasonality in consumer spending and payment patterns. A large part of our business is concerned with new theater builds, which often see substantial delays due to weather, but also financing timing, permits and governmental delays, and other unpredictable problems often associated with large real estate projects. Specifically, our revenue growth generally is higher during the first and fourth quarters of the fiscal year as the weather improves, the digital cinema market becomes more active and customers begin new theater builds or remodel projects. During these periods, we tend to experience increased transaction volume. Conversely, our revenue growth generally slows during the second quarter of the fiscal year, as spending on new theater construction and theater improvement projects tends to slow leading up to the holiday season and through the winter months. As a result, growth in transaction volume also tends to slow during these periods. We expect this seasonality to continue for the foreseeable future, which may cause fluctuations in our operating results and financial metrics. 

However, our seasonality trends may vary in the future as we introduce new products to new industry verticals, and we become less concentrated in the new theater construction and improvement sector.

Inflation

We believe that the relatively moderate rates of inflation in recent years have not had a significant impact on our net revenues or profitability. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, inflation increased to levels not seen since the 1980’s. Historically, the Company has been able to offset any inflationary effects by either increasing prices or improving cost efficiencies and expects to do so in the future.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 1, Business Activity and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the consolidated financial statements for a description of recently issued accounting pronouncements.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact the financial statements.

Our accounting policies are discussed in Note 1 of the financial statements in this Report. Management believes the following critical accounting policies reflect its more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements.

Revenue Recognition

The Company follows Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”).

Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods is transferred to a customer and when performance conditions are satisfied as per the agreement, in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those goods as per the agreement with the customer. We generate all our revenue from agreements with customers. In case there are agreements with multiple performance obligations, we identify each performance obligation and evaluate whether the performance obligations are distinct within the context of the agreement at the agreement’s inception. Performance obligations that are not distinct at agreement inception are combined. We allocate the transaction price to each distinct performance obligation proportionately based on the estimated standalone selling price for each performance obligation and then evaluate how the services are transferred to the customer to determine the timing of revenue recognition.

The Company considers the U.S. GAAP criteria for determining whether to report revenue gross as a principal versus net as an agent. Factors considered include whether the Company is the primary obligor, has risks and rewards of ownership, and bears the risk that a customer may not pay for the products provided or services performed. If there are circumstances where the above criteria are not met, revenues recognized are presented net of cost of goods sold.

Contract assets consist of conditional or unconditional rights to consideration. Accounts receivable represent amounts billed to customers where the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date (i.e., unconditional rights to consideration). 

Management has assessed that the adoption of ASU 2016-13 has had no material impact on its June 30, 2024 10-K consolidated financial statements. Due the Management’s continuing ability to obtain 90% of contract value in up-front customer 

deposits, MIT’s risk is only the remaining 10% of the customer’s contract value. The combined effect of up-front customer deposits, prompt collection of trade receivables and application of historical aging criteria has resulted in minimal bad debts and allowances for doubtful accounts.

Contract liabilities consist of refund and warranty liabilities, as well as deposits received in advance on sales to certain customers. Such deposits are reflected as customer deposits and recognized in revenue when control of the products is transferred or when performance conditions are satisfied per the agreement.

Cost of goods sold includes cost of inventory sold during the period, net of vendor discounts and allowances, shipping and handling costs, and sales taxes. Taxes collected from customers are included in Accounts Payable on a net basis (excluded from revenues) until remitted to the government.

Deferred contract acquisition costs consist of sales commissions paid to the sales force and the related employer payroll taxes, collectively “deferred contract acquisition costs”, are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. The Company has determined that sales commissions paid are an immaterial component of obtaining a customer’s contract and has elected to expense sales commissions when earned.

Inventory Valuation

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or net realizable value. Our policy is to evaluate all inventory quantities for amounts on-hand that are potentially in excess of estimated usage requirements, and to write down any excess quantities to estimated net realizable value. Inherent in the estimates of net realizable values are management’s estimates related to customer demand and the development of new technology, which could make our theater and digital media products obsolete, among other items.

Income Taxes

The Company utilizes an asset and liability approach for financial accounting and reporting for income taxes. The provisions for income taxes are based upon income or loss after adjustment for those permanent items that are not considered in the determination of taxable income. Deferred income taxes represent the tax effects of difference between the financial reporting and tax basis of the Company’s assets and liabilities at the enacted tax rates in effect for the years in which the difference is expected to reverse. The effects on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the period that includes the enactment date. Deferred tax assets are reduced by valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE