\. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our financial statements and related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. As a result of many factors, including those factors set forth in the “Risk factors” section of this Annual Report, our actual results could differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis.

Overview

We are a clinical-stage biotechnology company developing treatments for cannabis toxicity, such as unintentional cannabis poisoning, acute cannabinoid intoxication (“ACI”), and the broader landscape of acute cannabis-induced conditions. Our lead product candidate, selonabant (formerly ANEB-001), is intended to rapidly reverse the negative effects of cannabis toxicities and reduce time to recovery. Unintentional cannabis poisoning primarily occurs in children. Pediatric patients accidentally exposed to cannabis are at risk of serious and life-threatening outcomes including Central Nervous System (“CNS”) depression, respiratory depression, seizures, and coma. ACI in adults is characterized by signs and symptoms that may include anxiety, panic attacks, agitation, psychosis, and tachycardia. There is no approved medical treatment currently available to specifically treat ACI or unintentional cannabis poisoning or ACI, and we are not aware of any competing products that are further along in the development process than selonabant in reversing the effects of cannabinoids like delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, better known as THC, the principal psychoactive constituent of cannabis.

Unintentional cannabis poisoning and ACI have become a widespread health issue in the United States, particularly in the increasing number of states that have legalized cannabis for medical and recreational use. Unintentional or excessive ingestion of THC via edible products such as candies and brownies, and intoxication from synthetic cannabinoids (also known as “synthetics,” including “K2” or “spice”), are two potential causes of THC-related emergency room visits. Synthetic cannabinoids are analogous to fentanyl for opioids insofar as they are more potent at the cannabinoid receptor than their natural product congener THC.

Hospital emergency rooms across the United States have seen a dramatic increase in patient visits with cannabis-related conditions. Before the legalization of cannabis, an estimated 450,000 patients visited hospital emergency rooms annually for cannabis-related conditions. In 2014, this number more than doubled to an estimated 1.1 million patients, according to data published in “Trends and Characteristics of Cannabis-Associated Emergency Department Visits in the United States, 2006-2018,” Drug Alcohol Depend. 2022 Mar 1;232:109288. doi: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2022.109288. Epub 2022 Jan 10. PMID: 35033959; PMCID: PMC9885359) by Roehler DR, Hoots BE, Holland KM, Baldwin GT, and Vivolo-Kantor AM, which provided a national estimate analyzing data from The Nationwide Emergency Department Sample (“NEDS”), the largest database of U.S. hospital-owned emergency department visits. Based on our evaluation of a published analysis of the most recent NEDS data, we believe that the number of cannabis related emergency department visits grew to approximately 1.8 million patients in 2021. We believe the number of cannabis-related emergency department visits and health problems associated with unintentional cannabis poisoning and ACI will continue to increase substantially as more states pass laws legalizing cannabis for medical and recreational use. Given the consequences, there is an urgent need for a treatment to rapidly reverse the symptoms of unintentional cannabis poisoning and ACI.

Previous clinical trials completed by a third party have shown that oral selonabant is rapidly absorbed, well tolerated and, when repeatedly administered to obese subjects, leads to weight loss, an effect that is consistent with central antagonism of the cannabinoid receptor type-1 (“CB1”), the primary target of agonists like THC. In March 2021, our European clinical trial application (“CTA”), which is equivalent to an investigational new drug application in the United States, was accepted in the Netherlands to allow us to utilize oral selonabant in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 human proof-of-concept clinical trial for potential use as a treatment for ACI. The study (the “Netherlands Trial”) was designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and effectiveness of a single oral dose of selonabant in treating healthy adult subjects challenged with THC. We announced on January 3, 2022, that the first patient had been dosed in the Netherlands Trial. On May 11, 2022, we announced the dosing of all 60 subjects in Part A of the Netherlands Trial. On March 28, 2023, we announced complete results from Part A and Part B of the Netherlands Trial, in a total of 134 subjects. Dosing of an additional 20 subjects in an open-label extension of the study (“Part C”) was initiated in July 2023 and the study was completed in August 2023. We met with the FDA in July 2023 for a Type B meeting to discuss the Part A and B Phase 2 data and the potential path forward for Phase 3 development of oral selonabant for the treatment of adult ACI and received the minutes of the meeting in August 2023. The FDA indicated that a single well-controlled study of oral selonabant in ACI patients presenting to the emergency department combined with a larger THC challenge study in volunteers could potentially provide substantial evidence to support a new drug application. In addition, an observational study in patients presenting to emergency departments with ACI is currently ongoing. The study is designed to determine concentrations of cannabinoids and metabolites in plasma and gather information on signs and symptoms, patients’ disposition and selected assessments, where possible. We believe the data generated from the Netherlands Trial provide support for our development pathway.

Rather than proceeding directly with the Phase 3 studies of oral selonabant in adults with ACI, we are prioritizing the advancement of a selonabant IV formulation as a potential treatment for pediatric patients with unintentional cannabis poisoning, which we believe offers the potential for a faster timeline to approval relative to the adult oral product. We are currently scaling up the intravenous formulation for initial clinical safety studies.

The recent decision by the United States Department of Justice to support the rescheduling of marijuana from a schedule I to a schedule III-controlled substance is a move that we believe will ultimately lead to increased use of cannabis-containing products among US households. This potentially includes edible products that are often the cause of unintentional cannabis poisoning in children. We have evaluated the potential advantages of prioritizing a near-term solution for children with more serious symptoms over progressing our plans for clinical studies to support an adult oral ACI treatment and have decided to focus current efforts on the pediatric indication at this time. Our decision to prioritize the development of an intravenous treatment for children is driven by multiple factors. Our recent development of a suitable IV selonabant formulation enables its use in the pediatric population. Our prior discussions with the FDA have highlighted the need for an alternative formulation of selonabant for treating younger patients. There is increasing recognition among clinicians that this is a growing, unmet medical need in a vulnerable population where there are no approved treatments. Our belief is that the path to approval for an oral treatment for adult ACI may be facilitated by an initial approval for intravenous treatment of unintentional cannabis poisoning in the pediatric population. Furthermore, with this unprecedented change in cannabis regulation, Anebulo is uniquely positioned to become a provider of a rapid and clinically impactful solution for Emergency Departments to treat pediatric patients suffering from unintentional cannabis poisoning. Research has shown children are much more sensitive to the toxic effects of cannabis. Key factors such as an underdeveloped endocannabinoid system with more CB1 receptors in the brain than adults, and reduced ability to metabolize THC, contribute to a much greater risk to children. The risk is also evident in how cannabis effects this population; in contrast to adults who are exposed to acute cannabis toxicity, children are at risk of serious and life-threatening outcomes such as CNS depression, respiratory depression, seizures, and coma.

In May 2020, we entered into a royalty-bearing license agreement with Vernalis Development Limited (“License Agreement”) to exploit its licensed compounds and licensed products to combat symptoms of ACI and substance addiction. We are currently developing our lead product candidate, selonabant to quickly, and effectively, combat symptoms of ACI.

Our objective is to develop and commercialize new treatment options for patients suffering from cannabis toxicity. Our lead product candidate is selonabant, a potent, small molecule cannabinoid receptor antagonist, to address the unmet medical need for a specific antidote for cannabis toxicity. Selonabant is orally bioavailable, rapidly absorbed, and has also been formulated for intravenous administration. We anticipate that both oral and IV selonabant treatments will reverse the symptoms of cannabis toxicity, in most cases within 1 hour of administration. Our proprietary position in the treatment of cannabis toxicity is protected by rights to two patent applications covering various methods of use of the compound and delivery systems.

We were incorporated in Delaware on April 23, 2020, and commenced operations in May 2020. Our operations to date have consisted of organizing and acquiring the license rights to Vernalis’ licensed products, assembling an executive team, starting preparations for a Phase 2 proof-of-concept trial, including the synthesis of a new active pharmaceutical ingredient, the development and filing of a clinical trial protocol with regulatory agencies in Europe and raising capital. Prior to our initial public offering (“IPO”), we funded our operations through a private placement of our series A convertible preferred stock and issuance of two promissory notes to a related party.

On October 12, 2021, the United States Patent and Trademark Office issued to the Company U.S. Patent No. 11,141,404, titled “Formulations and Methods For Treating Acute Cannabinoid Overdose.” The issued patent describes the use of the Company’s investigational drug selonabant to treat acute cannabinoid overdose and is expected to provide patent protection through 2040.

On September 25, 2022, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with certain institutional accredited investors (the “Purchasers”), pursuant to which we sold and issued to the Purchasers in a private placement financing an aggregate of 2,264,650 units (collectively, the “Units”), with each Unit consisting of (i) one share of our common stock and (ii) a warrant to purchase one share of our common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $6,647,000 (or $2.935 per Unit) (the “Private Placement”). The closing of the Private Placement occurred on September 28, 2022. The Company received approximately $6.3 million in net proceeds from the Private Placement after deducting offering costs of approximately $317,000. Each warrant has an exercise price of $4.215 per share, which is subject to customary adjustments in the event of any combination or split of our common stock, and has a five-year term.

On October 6, 2023, the Company terminated without cause the employment of Simon Allen, who at the time was serving as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer. In connection with his termination, Mr. Allen resigned from the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”). On October 6, 2023, the Board appointed Richard (Richie) Anthony Cunningham as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the Board.

As more fully described in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below, on November 13, 2023, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (“LSA”) with 22NW, LP (“22NW”) and JFL Capital Management LLC (“JFL”) which will allow us to borrow up to $10 million as needed to fund future operations. The outstanding balance will accrue interest at 0.25% per annum and no fee will be assessed on the unused balance. The LSA will terminate and all outstanding principal drawn and interest accrued owed there under shall be due and payable on November 13, 2026 (the “Maturity Date”). As of June 30, 2024, there was no balance outstanding under the LSA.

On January 31, 2024, the United States Adopted Names (USAN) Council adopted selonabant as the generic name for selonabant.

On July 16, 2024, we were awarded the first tranche of $0.9 million of a two-year cooperative grant of up to a total of approximately $1.9 million from the National Institute on Drug Abuse (“NIDA”), part of the National Institutes of Health (“NIH”), to support the development of intravenous selonabant, for the potential use as an emergency treatment of acute cannabis-induced toxicities, including cannabis-induced CNS depression in children. With the support of NIDA, Anebulo aims to complete IND-enabling activities and the scale up of its formulation of intravenous selonabant around calendar year end 2024 as it prepares for clinical studies and the Company expects to enroll the first healthy adult volunteer in the first half of calendar 2025 The grant comes in the form of two tranches with the initial award of $0.9 million in the first year and subsequent funding of approximately $1 million subject to certain conditions and milestones in the second year, specifically that the Investigational New Drug Application to the FDA for a Phase 1 single ascending dose study of intravenous selonabant in healthy adults is permitted to proceed or an FDA clinical hold is imposed that cannot be successfully addressed with available time and resources. The grant was awarded under NIH award number 1U01DA059995-01.

Components of Results of Operations

Revenue

We have not generated any revenue since inception. If our development efforts for our current lead product candidate, selonabant, or other additional product candidates that we may develop in the future, are successful and result in marketing approval, or if we enter into collaboration or license agreements with third parties, we may generate revenue in the future from a combination of product sales or payments from such collaboration or license agreements. We cannot predict if, when, or to what extent we will generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of our product candidates. We have incurred operating losses since inception and expect to continue to incur significant operating losses and negative cash flows from operations in the future.

Research and Development Expenses

We expect to continue incurring significant research and development costs related to selonabant. Our research and development expenses for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 included research and development consulting expenses, clinical trials, and other costs, such as third-party and manufacturing costs, associated with development of our lead product candidate, selonabant.

We anticipate that our research and development activities will account for a significant portion of our operating expenses and these costs are expensed as incurred. We expect to significantly increase our research and development efforts as we continue to develop selonabant and conduct clinical trials with patients suffering from symptoms of cannabis toxicity, as well as continue to expand our product-candidate pipeline. Research and development expenses include:

| ● | Employee-related expenses, such as salaries, share-based compensation, benefits and travel expense for research and development personnel; 
---|---|--- 
| | 
| ● | direct third-party costs such as expenses incurred under agreements with contract research organizations (“CROs”) and contract manufacturing organizations (“CMOs”); 
| | 
| ● | costs associated with research and development activities of consultants; 
| | 
| ● | other third-party expenses directly attributable to the development of our product candidates; and 
| | 
| ● | amortization expense for asset purchases used in research and development activities. 

We currently have one lead product candidate; therefore, we do not track our internal research and development expenses on an indication-by-indication basis.

Research and development activities will continue to be central to our business model. We expect our research and development expenses to be significant over the next several years as we advance our current clinical development program and prepare to seek regulatory approval.

General and Administrative Expenses

General and administrative expenses for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 consisted primarily of professional fees, stock-based compensation, insurance, personnel costs and rent.

Results of Operations

Comparison of the Years Ended June 30, 2024 and 2023

The following table summarizes our results of operations:

Research and Development Expenses

The overall decrease in research and development expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 compared with the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023 was primarily attributable to a decrease in activities related to pre-clinical and clinical studies, and direct third-party costs incurred under agreements with CROs and CMOs for selonabant. We completed our Phase 2 proof of concept clinical trial for ACI during the first half of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, resulting in less expense than the comparable prior year. Rather than proceeding directly with the Phase 3 oral ACI studies in adults, we are prioritizing the advancement of a selonabant IV formulation as a potential treatment for pediatric patients with unintentional cannabis poisoning, which we believe offers the potential for a faster timeline to approval relative to the adult oral product. We are currently scaling up the IV formulation for initial clinical safety studies. We expect our research and development expenses to increase as we commence our next clinical trial.

General and Administrative Expenses

General and administrative expenses consisted of the following:

The overall decrease in general and administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 compared with the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023 was primarily attributable to an overall decrease in compensation and related benefits and stock-based compensation for executives and employees, professional and consultant fees, including legal and accounting fees, and a decrease in directors’ and officer’s insurance resulting from a decrease in yearly premium amounts. The Company has sought to reduce costs as it transitions to the next phase of development.

Interest Expense

Interest expense increased for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023 due to closing of the Loan and Security Agreement on November 13, 2023, which resulted in amortization of loan commitment fees during the year ended June 30, 2024.

Interest Income

Interest income increased for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023 due to an increase in market interest rates earned on the Company’s savings and money market accounts.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

Since our inception in April 2020, we have incurred significant operating losses. We expect to incur significant expenses and operating losses in the future as we advance the clinical development of our programs. In May 2021, we completed our IPO in which we received net proceeds of approximately $19.8 million. As noted above, on September 28, 2022, we closed the “Private Placement”, in which we received net proceeds of approximately $6.3 million. As of June 30, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $3.1 million. We anticipate our cash and cash equivalents, plus available funding under the Loan and Security Agreement (“LSA”), will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements through at least 12 months from the issuance date of the financial statements. As and if necessary, we will seek to raise these additional funds through various potential sources, such as equity and debt financings or through collaboration, license and development agreements. We can give no assurances that we will be able to secure such additional sources of funds to support our operations on acceptable terms or at all, or, if such funds are available to us, that such additional financing will be sufficient to meet our needs.

Loan and Security Agreement

On November 13, 2023, we entered into the LSA with 22NW and JFL (the “Lenders”) which will allow us to draw up to $10 million (the “Facility Amount”) as needed to fund future operations until the Maturity Date. Pursuant to the LSA, if we elect to draw on the Facility Amount (an “Advance”), JFL has the right, but not the obligation to fund 50% of the Advance at our request. If JFL elects not to fund 50% of the Advance, then 22NW will fund 100% of the Advance. The outstanding balance will accrue interest at 0.25% per annum and no fee will be assessed on the unused balance. Upon the draw of at least $3 million in the aggregate, the LSA will be collateralized by substantially all of our assets. All principal drawn and interest accrued under the LSA will be due and payable on the Maturity Date.

We issued 300,000 shares of common stock to 22NW upon the signing of the LSA. We will also issue 0.03 shares of common stock per dollar loaned in each Advance (rounded up or down to the nearest whole share) up to a maximum aggregate of 300,000 (the “Advance Shares”); provided that a minimum of 50,000 Advance Shares will be issued in connection with the first Advance. The Advance Shares shall be issued to the Lenders on a pro rata basis according to the portion of each Advance such Lender funds. As of June 30, 2024, there was no balance outstanding under the LSA.

Joseph F. Lawler, M.D., Ph.D., our founder and a member of our Board of Directors, is the founder and Managing Member of JFL. Aron R. English, the President and Portfolio Manager of 22NW, and Nathaniel Calloway, the lead for 22NW, are each members of our Board of Directors.

Cash Flows

The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flows:

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, we used cash and cash equivalents of $8.2 million, which consists of cash used in operating activities of $8.1 million primarily resulting from our net loss of $8.2 million, partially offset by the non-cash related stock-based compensation of $0.8 million, non-cash amortization of loan commitment fee of $0.2 million, and a change in operating assets and liabilities of ($0.8) million. We also used cash from financing activities of approximately ($0.1) million primarily resulting from the payment of certain offering costs. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, we used cash in operating activities of $9.7 million primarily resulting from our net loss of $11.7 million, partially offset by the non-cash related stock-based compensation of approximately $0.9 million, and a change in operating assets and liabilities of $1.2 million. We also received cash from financing activities of approximately $6.4 million primarily resulting from the issuance of common stock and pre-funded warrants of approximately $6.6 million, net of offering costs of approximately $0.3 million.

Funding and Material Cash Requirements

We expect that our cash and cash equivalents at June 30, 2024 will enable us to fund our current and planned operating expenses and capital expenditures into the fourth quarter of calendar year 2025. We have based these estimates on assumptions that may prove to be imprecise, and we may exhaust our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development of our programs, we are unable to estimate the amounts of increased capital outlays and operating expenses associated with completing the research and development of our product candidates.

Our present and future funding and cash requirements will depend on many factors, including, among other things:

| ● | the progress, timing and completion of our ongoing and planned clinical trials and nonclinical studies; 
---|---|--- 
| ● | our ability to receive, and the timing of receipt of, future regulatory approvals for our product candidates and the costs related thereto; 
| ● | the scope, progress, results and costs of our ongoing and planned operations; 
| ● | the costs associated with expanding our operations and building our sales and marketing capabilities; 
| ● | our ability to establish strategic collaborations; 
| ● | the cost and timing of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights and defending any intellectual property-related claims; 
| ● | the revenue, if any, received from commercial sales of our products, if approved; and 
| ● | potential new product candidates we identify and attempt to develop. 

Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenue from sales of any of our current or future product candidates, to support our material cash requirements in the near-term (within one year) and long-term (beyond one year), we will need to seek additional equity or debt financing or potential collaboration, license or development agreements to provide the capital required to maintain or expand our operations, continue the development of our product candidate, build our sales and marketing capabilities, promote brand identity, develop or acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses, or provide for our working capital requirements and other operating and general corporate purposes. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities and/or equity-linked securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders may be reduced, and accordingly these stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may also issue equity securities and/or equity-linked securities that provide rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock. The LSA does, and any additional debt financing, if obtained, may, involve agreements that include liens on our assets and covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt. Debt financing could also be required to be repaid regardless of our operating results. If we raise funds through collaborations, license or development agreements, we may be required to relinquish some rights to our current or future products or revenue streams or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, or is not available at all, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate the development of our current or future product candidates and other business.

Contractual Obligations and Commitments

License Agreement with Vernalis Development Limited

On May 26, 2020, we entered into an exclusive license agreement (the “License Agreement”) with Vernalis Development Limited, formerly Vernalis (R&D) Limited (“Vernalis”). Pursuant to the License Agreement, Vernalis granted us an exclusive worldwide royalty-bearing license to develop and commercialize a compound that we refer to as selonabant, as well as access to and a right of reference with respect to any regulatory materials under its control. The License Agreement allows us to sublicense the rights thereunder to any person with similar or greater financial resources and expertise without Vernalis’ prior consent, provided the proposed sublicensee is not developing or commercializing a product that contains a CB1 antagonist or is for the same indication covered by the trials or market authorization for selonabant. In exchange for the exclusive license, we agreed to pay Vernalis a non-refundable signature fee of $0.2 million, total potential developmental milestone payments of up to $29.9 million (of which $0.4 million has been paid), total potential sales milestone payments of up to $35.0 million, and low to mid-single digit royalties on net sales.

We have the sole discretion to carry out the development and commercialization of selonabant, including obtaining regulatory approvals, and we are responsible for all costs and expenses in connection therewith. We have access to certain regulatory materials, including study reports from clinical and non-clinical trials, under Vernalis’ control. We agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to (i) develop and commercialize selonabant in the United States and certain European countries and (ii) conduct dose a patient as part of a Phase 2 and human clinical trial within two years of the commencement date of the License Agreement (which obligation we have met), and dose a patient as part of a Pivotal Trial (as such term is defined in the License Agreement) within four years of commencement of the License Agreement, which period was in accordance with the terms of the License Agreement extended for a nominal fee. We also agreed to provide Vernalis with periodic reports of our activities and notice of market authorization within specified timeframes.

Office Lease, Manufacturing Contract and CRO Contract

We manage our business operations from our principal executive office in Lakeway, Texas, in leased space under a sublease with a related party for approximately $400 per month.

We have a manufacturing agreement with a third-party CMO. The total cost for the current contract is approximately $3.0 million. The manufacturing aspect of this contract was substantially completed as of June 30, 2024. The stability study aspect of the contract is expected to be fully incurred during calendar 2026.

In February 2021, we entered into an agreement with a third-party CRO to manage and conduct our Phase 2 clinical trial for selonabant in the Netherlands, which was initiated in December 2021. The total cost for the CRO agreement wis approximately €2.8 million (approximately USD $3.1 million as of December 31, 2023) and was substantially completed as of December 31, 2023.

We enter into contracts in the normal course of business with clinical trial sites and clinical supply manufacturers and other services and products for operating purposes. These contracts generally provide for termination after a notice period, and therefore, are cancellable contracts.

Critical Accounting Estimates

Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”). The preparation of our financial statements and related disclosures requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, costs and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

While our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our financial statements in this Annual Report, we believe that the following accounting policies are those most critical to the judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements.

Accrued Research and Development Expenses

As part of the process of preparing our financial statements, we are required to estimate our accrued research and development expenses. This process involves reviewing open contracts and purchase orders, communicating with our personnel to identify services that have been performed on our behalf and estimating the level of service performed and the associated costs incurred for the services when we have not yet been invoiced or otherwise notified of the actual costs. The majority of our service providers invoice us in arrears for services performed and some require advanced payments. We make estimates of our accrued expenses of each balance sheet date in our financial statements based on facts and circumstances known to us at that time. Examples of estimated accrued research and development expenses include fees payable to:

| ● | CROs in connection with performing research services on our behalf and any clinical trials; 
---|---|--- 
| | 
| ● | investigative sites or other providers in connection with studies and any clinical trials; 
| | 
| ● | vendors in connection with the preparation of our NDA filing, market and patient awareness programs, market research and analysis and medical education; and 
| | 
| ● | vendors related to product manufacturing, development and distribution of clinical supplies. 

We base our expenses for services rendered on our estimates of the services received and efforts expended pursuant to quotes, contracts and communicating with our vendors. The financial terms of these agreements are subject to negotiation, vary from contract to contract and may result in uneven payments. There may be instances in which payments made to our vendors will exceed the level of services provided and result in a prepayment of the expense. In accruing service fees, we estimate the time period over which services will be performed and the level of effort to be expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from our estimate, we adjust the accrual or amount of prepaid or accrued expenses accordingly. Although we do not expect our estimates to be materially different from amounts actually incurred, our understanding of the status and timing of services performed relative to the actual status and timing of services performed may vary and may result in us reporting amounts that are too high or too low in any particular period.

Stock-Based Compensation Expense

Our 2020 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the grant of qualified incentive stock options and nonqualified stock options or other awards to the Company’s employees, officers, directors, advisors, and outside consultants for the purchase of up to 3,650,000 shares of the Company’s common stock. Other awards include restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights and other stock-based awards. Other stock-based awards are awards valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based on, shares of common stock. Stock options generally vest over a four-year period, at achievement of a performance requirement, or upon change of control (as defined in the applicable plan). The awards expire in five to ten years from the date of grant.

The fair value of stock options we grant is estimated using the Black Scholes option pricing model. This option pricing model based on certain subjective assumptions, including (i) the expected stock price volatility, (ii) the expected term of the award, (iii) the risk-free rate of interest, and (iv) expected dividends. The fair value of our common stock utilized in the model is determined based on the quoted closing market price of our common stock as reported by Nasdaq on the date of grant.

There were no significant changes to assumptions used to value options using the Black Scholes option pricing model during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, with the exception of the stock and exercise prices.

JOBS Act Accounting Election

The JOBS Act, enacted in April 2012, permits an “emerging growth company” such as us to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have and intend to continue to take advantage of all of the reduced reporting requirements and exemptions, including the longer phase-in periods for the adoption of new or revised financial accounting standards, for an emerging growth company under Section 107 of the JOBS Act. Our election to use the phase-in periods may make it difficult to compare our financial statements to those of non-emerging growth companies and other emerging growth companies that have opted out of the phase-in periods under Section 107 of the JOBS Act. See “Risk Factors—General Risk Factors—We are an “emerging growth company” and our election to delay adoption of new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies may result in our financial statements not being comparable to those of some other public companies. As a result of this and other reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our securities may be less attractive to investors.”