ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (the “MD&A”) should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere herein. The MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words “believe,” “plan,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “target,” “estimate,” “expect,” and the like, and/or future-tense or conditional constructions (“will,” “may,” “could,” “should,” etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. Our actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors.

Historical results may not indicate future performance. Our forward-looking statements reflect our current views about future events, are based on assumptions and are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by these statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, including any changes that might result from any facts, events, or circumstances after the date hereof that may bear upon forward-looking statements. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee future results, events, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. 

Overview

Driven by tech and data, iPower Inc. is an online supplier of consumer goods, including hydroponics equipment, general gardening supplies, and consumer home goods. Through the operations of our e-commerce platforms and channel partners, our combined 121,000 square foot fulfillment centers in Rancho Cucamonga and Los Angeles, California, we believe we are one of the leading marketers, distributors and retailers in the consumer gardening and home goods categories, based on management’s estimates. Our core strategy continues to focus on expanding our geographic reach across the United States and internationally through organic growth, both in terms of expanding customer base as well as brand and product development. iPower has developed a set of methodologies driven by proprietary data formulas to effectively bring products to market and sales.

We are actively developing our in-house branded products and through supply chain partners, which to date include the iPower and Simple Deluxe brands and more, some of which have been designated as Amazon best seller product leaders and Amazon Choice products, among others.

Trends and Expectations

Product and Brand Development

We plan to increase investments in product and brand development. We actively evaluate potential acquisition opportunities of companies and product brand names that can complement our product catalog and improve on existing products and supply chain efficiencies.

Global Economic Disruption 

While at present the majority of our products are sourced either in the United States or China, the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine may nonetheless increase the likelihood of supply chain interruptions and hinder our ability to find the materials we need to make our products. Thus far, as a result of the general global economic disruption, we have experienced a decrease in the speed with which we are able to purchase new inventory, as well as an increase in costs due to delays in shipping, resulting increase in time with which products remain in our warehouse facilities, thus resulting in reduced profits. In addition, supply chain disruptions may make it harder for us to find favorable pricing and reliable sources for the materials we need, putting upward pressure on our costs and increasing the risk that we may be unable to acquire the materials and services we need to continue to make certain products.

Regulatory Environment

We sell hydroponic gardening products to end users that may use such products in new and emerging industries or segments, including the growing of cannabis. The demand for hydroponic gardening products depends on the uncertain growth of these industries or segments due to varying, inconsistent, and rapidly changing laws, regulations, administrative practices, enforcement approaches, judicial interpretations, and consumer perceptions. For example, certain countries and a total of 46 U.S. states plus the District of Columbia have adopted frameworks that authorize, regulate and tax the cultivation, processing, sale and use of cannabis for medicinal and/or non-medicinal use, including legalization of hemp and CBD, while the U.S. Controlled Substances Act and the laws of U.S. states prohibit growing cannabis. Demand for our products could be impacted by changes in the regulatory environment with respect to such industries and segments.

Recent Developments

On June 18, 2024, we closed on the Registered Direct offering of 2,083,334 Shares and a concurrent Private Placement of Warrants to purchase 2,083,334 Warrant Shares, which were sold for gross aggregate proceeds of $5,000,002. The Shares were sold pursuant to a prospectus supplement, filed on June 18, 2024, to the Registration Statement on Form S-3, originally filed on September 25, 2023, with the SEC (File No. 333-274665), and declared effective by the SEC on September 29, 2023. The Warrants, which were issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under Section 4(a) or Regulation D of the Securities Act, have a term of five years and are immediately exercisable at $2.40 per share. The Shares and Warrants were sold to a Purchase Agreement to a securities purchase agreement, dated June 16, 2024, between the Company and the purchaser. Roth Capital Partners, LLC acted as Placement Agent, pursuant to a Placement Agency Agreement. The Company paid the Placement Agent as compensation a cash fee equal to 6.5% of the gross proceeds of the Offering plus reimbursement of certain expenses and legal fees.

On July 9, 2024, as required by the Purchase Agreement, we filed a resale registration statement on Form S-1 with the SEC (the "Resale Form S-1"). Upon filing an amendment on July 23, 2024, the Resale Form S-1 was declared effective by the SEC on July 26, 2024.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

For the fiscal years ended June, 2024 and 2023

The following table presents certain consolidated statement of operations information and presentation of that data as a percentage of change from period to period.

Revenues

Revenues for the year ended June 30, 2024 decreased 3.18% to $86,071,485 as compared to $88,902,048 for the year ended June 30, 2023. While pricing remained stable, the decreased revenue mainly resulted from a slight decrease in sales volume.

Costs of Goods Sold

Costs of goods sold for the year ended June 30, 2024 decreased 13.47% to $46,818,232 as compared to $54,104,587 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The decrease was mainly due to the decrease in sales, freight costs, and lowered product costs resulted from management’s efforts on supply chain management.

Gross Profit

Gross profit was $ 39,253,253 for the year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to $34,797,461 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The gross profit ratio increased to 45.61% for the year ended June 30, 2024 from 39.14% for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increase in gross profit ratio was mainly driven by the decrease in costs of goods sold during the year ended June 30, 2024, as discussed above.

Operating Expenses

Operating expenses for the year ended June 30, 2024 decreased 16.70% to $40,216,145 as compared to $48,281,004 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The decrease was mainly due to the combination of a decrease in selling and fulfillment expenses of $4.33 million, including vendor warranty credits for prior year purchases of $2.48 million recorded during the year ended June 30, 2024 and decreased costs related to advertising, merchant fees, delivery fees, rental expenses, storage costs and fulfillment workforce, a decrease in general and administrative expenses of $0.67 million, which included payroll expenses, stock-based compensation expense, insurance expenses, legal fees related to the Boustead case, and other operating expenses including expenses associated with being a publicly traded company, and a decrease of $3.06 million of impairment loss on goodwill triggered by a decrease in the Company’s share price of its common stock and the net loss incurred during the quarter ended September 30, 2022. We have seen decreased operating expenses during the year ended June 30, 2024; however, we can provide no assurance that this trend will continue.

Loss from Operations

Loss from operations was 962,892 for the year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to $13,483,543 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The decrease was due to combination of the decrease in operating expenses and the increase in gross profit as discussed above.

Other Expenses

Other expenses consist of interest expense and other non-operating income (expenses). Other expenses for the year ended June 30, 2024 were $829,921 as compared to $1,184,030 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The decrease in other expenses was mainly due to decrease in other non-operating loss of $71,761, and in interest, including amortization of debt discount, on the revolving loan of $277,855 during the year ended June 30, 2024 resulted from the decreasing loan balance.

Net Loss Attributable to iPower Inc. 

Net loss attributable to iPower Inc. for the year ended June 30, 2024 was $1,528,159 as compared to $11,965,390 for the year ended June 30, 2023, representing a decrease of net loss of $10,437,231. The decrease was primarily due to the increase in gross profit and decrease in operating expenses as discussed above.

Comprehensive loss Attributable to iPower Inc. 

Comprehensive loss attributable to iPower Inc. for the year ended June 30, 2024 was $1,676,431 as compared to $12,033,202 for the year ended June 30, 2023, representing a decrease of comprehensive loss of $10,356,771. The decrease was due to the reasons discussed above, along with other comprehensive loss of $148,272 as a result of foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from the translation of RMB, the functional currency of our VIE in the PRC, to USD, the reporting currency of the Company.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Sources of Liquidity

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 we primarily funded our operations with cash and cash equivalents generated from operations, as well as through borrowing under our credit facility from JPMorgan Chase Bank (“JPM”). Additionally, on June 18, 2024, we closed on the Registered Direct offering of 2,083,334 Shares and a concurrent Private Placement of Warrants to purchase 2,083,334 Warrant Shares, which were sold for gross aggregate proceeds of $5,000,002. We had cash and cash equivalents of $7,377,837 as of June 30, 2024, representing a $3,642,195 increase from $3,735,642 in cash as of June 30, 2023. The cash increase was primarily the result of the cash we received in the Registered Direct in June 2024.

Based on our current operating plan, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to finance our operations during the next 12 months. However, our liquidity and our ability to meet our obligations and fund our capital requirements are dependent on our future financial performance, which is subject to general economic, financial and other factors that are beyond our control, such as rising inflation and potential recession, and our anticipated funding requirements could increase. See the “Risk Factors” section in this Annual Report.

Our cash requirements consist primarily of day-to-day operating expenses and obligations with respect to warehouse leases. We lease all our office and warehouse facilities. We expect to make future payments on existing leases from cash generated from operations. We have credit terms in place with our major suppliers, however as we bring on new suppliers, we are often required to prepay our inventory purchases from them. This is consistent with our historical operating model which allowed us to operate using only cash generated by the business. Beyond the next 12 months we believe that our cash flow from operations should improve as supply chain operations normalize and new suppliers we are bringing online transition to credit terms more favorable to us. In addition, we plan to increase the size of our in-house product catalog, which will have a net beneficial impact to our margin profile and ability to generate cash. Currently, we have approximately $18.0 million in unused credit under the revolving line with JPM, which will be expired and we are in negotiations on a renewal in November 2024.

Given our current working capital position and available funding from our revolving credit line and proceeds from our June Registered Direct offering, we believe we will be able to manage through the current challenges by managing payment terms with customers and vendors.

Working Capital

As of June 30, 2024 and 2023, our working capital was $11.2 million and $17.9 million, respectively. The historical seasonality in our business during the year can cause cash and cash equivalents, inventory and accounts payable to fluctuate, resulting in changes in our working capital. We anticipate that past historical trends to remain in place through the balance of the fiscal year with working capital remaining near this level for the foreseeable future.

Cash Flows

Operating Activities

Our largest source of cash provided by operations is from sales of products. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities include payments to suppliers for products, to employees for compensation, and other general expenses. Net cash provided by operating activities for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 was $6,164,076 and $9,211,269, respectively. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities mainly resulted from a decrease in cash received from customers and an increase in cash paid for cost of revenues and operating expenses.

Investing Activities

For the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, net cash used in investing activities was $0 and $140,813, respectively. The decrease in cash used in investing activities was because the Company did not purchase any additional equipment during the year ended June 30, 2024, whereas such equipment had been purchased in the same period during 2023.

Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $2,397,801 and $7,153,620, respectively, for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to a combination of increase in proceeds from our registered offering and loans and our payment of approximately $16.8 million for: $3.8 million to pay off the notes payable to White Cherry; $12 million to pay down the outstanding balance of the asset-based revolving loan facility with JPM; and $1.0 million of offering cost settlement payment to Boustead.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements (as that term is defined in Item 303 of Regulation S-K) that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. In some cases, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition and results of operations will be affected. We base our estimates on experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies, which we discuss further below. While our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements, we believe that the following accounting policies are critical to the process of making significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of our audited consolidated financial statements.

Revenue recognition

The Company recognizes revenue from service and product sales revenues, net of promotional discounts and return allowances, when the following revenue recognition criteria are met: a contract has been identified, separate performance obligations are identified, the transaction price is determined, the transaction price is allocated to separate performance obligations and revenue is recognized upon satisfying each performance obligation. The Company transfers the risk of loss or damage upon shipment or completion of service, therefore, revenue from product sales is recognized when it is shipped to the customer and the revenue from services is recognized upon completion of services. For the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, the revenues from services were immaterial. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue by the Company’s best estimate of expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience.

The Company evaluates the criteria of ASC 606 - Revenue Recognition Principal Agent Considerations in determining whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when the Company is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide a specified good or service and the Company has discretion in establishing the price, revenue is recorded at gross.

Payments received prior to the delivery of goods to customers are recorded as customer deposits.

The Company periodically provides incentive offers to its customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by the Company’s customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction.

Sales discounts are recorded in the period in which the related sale is recognized. Sales return allowances are estimated based on historical amounts and are recorded upon recognizing the related sales. Shipping and handling costs are recorded as selling expenses.

Accounts receivable, net

During the ordinary course of business, the Company extends unsecured credit to its customers. Accounts receivable are stated at the amount the Company expects to collect from customers. Management reviews its accounts receivable balances each reporting period to determine if an allowance for credit loss is required.

The Company evaluates the creditworthiness of all of its customers individually before accepting them and continuously monitors the recoverability of accounts receivable. If there are any indicators that a customer may not make payment, the Company may consider making provision for non-collectability for that particular customer. At the same time, the Company may cease further sales or services to such customer. The following are some of the factors that the Company develops allowance for credit losses:

Accounts receivable are recognized and carried at carrying amount less an allowance for credit losses, if any. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments based on contractual terms. The Company reviews the collectability of its receivables on a regular and ongoing basis. The Company has also included in calculation of allowance for credit losses the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our customers’ businesses and their ability to pay their accounts receivable. After all attempts to collect a receivable have failed, the receivable is written off against the allowance. The Company also considers external factors to the specific customer, including current conditions and forecasts of economic conditions, including the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. In the event we recover amounts previously written off, we will reduce the specific allowance for credit losses.

Inventory, net

Inventory consists of finished goods ready for sale and is stated at the lower of cost or market. The Company values its inventory using the weighted average costing method. The Company’s policy is to include as a part of inventory and cost of goods sold any freight incurred to ship the product from its vendors to warehouses. Outbound freight costs related to shipping costs to customers are considered period costs and reflected in selling and fulfillment expenses. The Company regularly review inventory and consider forecasts of future demand, market conditions and product obsolescence.

If the estimated realizable value of the inventory is less than cost, the Company makes provisions in order to reduce its carrying value to its estimated market value. The Company also reviews inventory for slow moving and obsolescence and records allowance for obsolescence.

Variable interest entities

On February 15, 2022, the Company acquired 100% of the ordinary shares of Anivia and its subsidiaries, including Daheshou (Shenzhen) Information Technology Co., Ltd., a company organized under the Laws of the PRC (“DHS”). Pursuant to the terms of the agreements, the Company does not have direct ownership in DHS but is actively involved in DHS’s operations as the sole manager to direct the activities and significantly impact DHS’s economic performance. DHS’s operational funding is provided by the Company after February 15, 2022. During the term of the agreements, which run for a term of 10 years from February 2022 to February 2032, the Company bears all the risk of loss and has the right to receive all of the benefits from DHS. As such, based on the determination that the Company is the primary beneficiary of DHS, in accordance with ASC 810-10-25-38A through 25-38J, DHS is considered a variable interest entity (“VIE”) of the Company and the financial statements of DHS have been consolidated from the date such control existed, February 15, 2022. See Note 4 for details on acquisition.

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The Company accounts for goodwill under ASC Topic 350, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other.

Goodwill is not amortized but is reviewed for potential impairment on an annual basis, or if events or circumstances indicate a potential impairment, at the reporting unit level. The Company’s review for impairment includes an assessment of qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, including goodwill. If it is determined that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, including goodwill, a quantitative goodwill impairment test is performed, which compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amounts, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired. However, if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss will be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. The Company engaged an independent third-party valuation firm in August 2022 to conduct an evaluation of goodwill impairment for the Company as a whole at the consolidated reporting unit level as of June 30, 2022, which evaluation was conducted prior to the Company’s filing of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended June 30, 2022\. Due to the decrease in the Company’s share price subsequent to the filing of the June 30, 2022 Form 10-K and the net loss incurred during the quarter ended September 30, 2022, the Company engaged the same valuation firm to review goodwill for impairment. Based on this review, the Company concluded an impairment loss of $3,060,034 as of September 30, 2022 was required. The impairment amount was determined based on the discounted cash flows with the revised projections reflecting the increase in freight and storage costs in the current interim quarter. The Company also considered the Market Capital Method, which is an alternative market approach, suggested the Company’s goodwill is partially impaired.

Subsequent to the quarter ended September 30, 2022, during the period ended June 30, 2023, the Company performed a qualitative and quantitative goodwill impairment analysis following the steps laid out in ASC 350-20-35-3C and noted no goodwill impairment. As of June 30, 2024 and 2023, the goodwill balance amounted to $3,034,110 and $3,034,110, respectively.

Intangible Assets, net

Finite life intangible assets at June 30, 2024 include a covenant not to compete, supplier relationship and software recognized as part of the acquisition of Anivia. Intangible assets are recorded at the estimated fair value of these items at the date of acquisition, February 15, 2022. Intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life as followings:

The Company reviews the recoverability of long-lived assets, including intangible assets, when events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based on the ability to recover the carrying value of the asset from the expected future pretax cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the related operations. If these cash flows are less than the carrying value of such asset, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between estimated fair value and carrying value. The measurement of impairment requires management to make estimates of these cash flows related to long-lived assets, as well as other fair value determinations. As of June 30, 2024, there were no indicators of impairment.

Stock-based Compensation

The Company applies ASC No. 718, “Compensation-Stock Compensation,” which requires that share-based payment transactions with employees and nonemployees upon adoption of ASU 2018-07, be measured based on the grant date fair value of the equity instrument and recognized as compensation expense over the requisite service period, with a corresponding addition to equity. Under this method, compensation cost related to employee share options or similar equity instruments is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award, which generally is the vesting period. In addition to the requisite service period, the Company also evaluates the performance condition and market condition under ASC 718-10-20. For an award that contains both a performance and a market condition, and where both conditions must be satisfied in order for the award to vest, the market condition is incorporated into the fair value of the award, and that fair value is recognized over the employee’s requisite service period or nonemployee’s vesting period if it is probable that the performance condition will be met. If the performance condition is ultimately not met, compensation cost related to the award should not be recognized (or should be reversed) because the vesting condition in the award has not been satisfied.

The Company will recognize forfeitures of such equity-based compensation as they occur.

Income taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their perspective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are recorded, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized.

As a result of the implementation of certain provisions of ASC 740, Income Taxes (“ASC 740”), which clarifies the accounting and disclosure for uncertainty in tax position, as defined, ASC 740 seeks to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement related to accounting for income taxes. The Company has adopted the provisions of ASC 740 since its inception on April 11, 2018, and has subsequently analyzed filing positions in each of the federal and state jurisdictions where the Company is required to file income tax returns, as well as open tax years in such jurisdictions. The Company has identified the U.S. federal jurisdiction and the states of Nevada and California as its “major” tax jurisdictions. However, the Company has certain tax attribute carryforwards which will remain subject to review and adjustment by the relevant tax authorities until the statute of limitations closes with respect to the year in which such attributes are utilized.

The Company believes that our income tax filing positions and deductions will be sustained on audit and do not anticipate any adjustments that will result in a material change to its financial position. Therefore, no reserves for uncertain income tax positions have been recorded pursuant to ASC 740\. The Company’s policy for recording interest and penalties associated with income-based tax audits is to record such items as a component of income taxes.

Recently issued accounting pronouncements

In December 2023, The FASB issued ASU 2023-09, Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures. Under this ASU, public business entities must annually “ disclose specific categories in the rate reconciliation and provide additional information for reconciling items that meet a quantitative threshold (if the effect of those reconciling items is equal to or greater than 5 percent of the amount computed by multiplying pretax income [or loss] by the applicable statutory income tax rate).” This ASU’s amendments are effective for public business entities for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024. For entities other than public business entities, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2025. Entities are permitted to early adopt the standard “for annual financial statements that have not yet been issued or made available for issuance.” The amendments should be applied on a prospective basis. Retrospective application is permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.

In November 2023, The FASB issued ASU 2023-07, Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures. The amendments apply to all public entities that are required to report segment information in accordance with Topic 280, Segment Reporting. The amendments in this ASU are intended to improve reportable segment disclosure requirements primarily through enhanced disclosures about significant segment expenses. The key amendments: 1. Require that a public entity disclose, on an annual and interim basis, significant segment expenses that are regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker (CODM) and included within each reported measure of segment profit or loss. 2. Require that a public entity disclose, on an annual and interim basis, an amount for other segment items by reportable segment and a description of its composition. The other segment items category is the difference between segment revenue less the significant expenses disclosed and each reported measure of segment profit or loss. 3. Require that a public entity provide all annual disclosures about a reportable segment’s profit or loss and assets currently required by FASB Accounting Standards Codification® Topic 280, Segment Reporting, in interim periods. 4. Clarify that if the CODM uses more than one measure of a segment’s profit or loss in assessing segment performance and deciding how to allocate resources, a public entity may report one or more of those additional measures of segment profit. However, at least one of the reported segment profit or loss measures (or the single reported measure, if only one is disclosed) should be the measure that is most consistent with the measurement principles used in measuring the corresponding amounts in the public entity’s consolidated financial statements. 5. Require that a public entity disclose the title and position of the CODM and an explanation of how the CODM uses the reported measure(s) of segment profit or loss in assessing segment performance and deciding how to allocate resources. 6\. Require that a public entity that has a single reportable segment provide all the disclosures required by the amendments in the ASU and all existing segment disclosures in Topic 280. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024. Early adoption is permitted. A public entity should apply the amendments retrospectively to all prior periods presented in the financial statements. Upon transition, the segment expense categories and amounts disclosed in the prior periods should be based on the significant segment expense categories identified and disclosed in the period of adoption. The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.

In October 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-06, Disclosure Improvements: Codification Amendments in Response to the SEC's Disclosure Update and Simplification Initiative. This ASU incorporates certain U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) disclosure requirements into the FASB Accounting Standards Codification™ (“Codification”). The amendments in the ASU are expected to clarify or improve disclosure and presentation requirements of a variety of Codification Topics, allow users to more easily compare entities subject to the SEC’s existing disclosures with those entities that were not previously subject to the requirements, and align the requirements in the Codification with the SEC’s regulations. In SEC Release No. 33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, issued August 17, 2018, the SEC referred certain of its disclosure requirements that overlap with, but require incremental information to, generally accepted accounting principles to the FASB for potential incorporation into the Codification. The ASU incorporates into the Codification 14 of the 27 disclosures referred by the SEC. They modify the disclosure or presentation requirements of a variety of Topics in the Codification. The requirements are relatively narrow in nature. Some of the amendments represent clarifications to, or technical corrections of, the current requirements. Because of the variety of Topics amended, a broad range of entities may be affected by one or more of those amendments. For entities subject to the SEC’s existing disclosure requirements and for entities required to file or furnish financial statements with or to the SEC in preparation for the sale of or for purposes of issuing securities that are not subject to contractual restrictions on transfer, the effective date for each amendment will be the date on which the SEC removes that related disclosure from its rules. For all other entities, the amendments will be effective two years later. However, if by June 30, 2027, the SEC has not removed the related disclosure from its regulations, the amendments will be removed from the Codification and not become effective for any entity. The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.

In September 2022, FASB issued ASU 2022-04, Liabilities—Supplier Finance Programs (Subtopic 405-50): Disclosure of Supplier Finance Program Obligations. The amendments in this ASU require that a company that uses a supplier finance program in connection with the purchase of goods or services disclose sufficient information about the program to allow a user of financial statements to understand the program’s nature, activity during the period, changes from period to period, and potential magnitude. ASU 2022-04 is effective for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2022, except for the rollforward of the supplier finance program obligations, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023. Early adoption is permitted. An entity should apply ASU No. 2022-04 retrospectively to all periods in which a balance sheet is presented, except for the obligation rollforward, which should be applied prospectively. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

In June 2022, FASB issued ASU 2022-03, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Fair Value Measurement of Equity Securities Subject to Contractual Sale Restrictions. The amendments in this ASU clarify the guidance in ASC 820 on the fair value measurement of an equity security that is subject to a contractual sale restriction and require specific disclosures related to such an equity security. This standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024. The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.

In October 2021, the FASB issued ASU 2021-08, Business Combinations (Topic 805), Accounting for Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities from Contracts with Customers. This ASU clarifies that an acquirer of a business should recognize and measure contract assets and contract liabilities in a business combination in accordance with ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) as if the entity had originated the contracts. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, with early application permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-06, “Debt – Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging – Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40).” This ASU reduces the number of accounting models for convertible debt instruments and convertible preferred stock, as well as amend the guidance for the derivatives scope exception for contracts in an entity’s own equity to reduce form-over-substance-based accounting conclusions. In addition, this ASU improves and amends the related EPS guidance. This standard is effective for the Company on July 1, 2024, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Adoption is either a modified retrospective method or a fully retrospective method of transition. The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

In March 2020 and January 2021, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-04, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting and ASU No. 2021-01, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Scope, respectively (collectively, “Topic 848”). Topic 848 provides optional expedients and exceptions for applying GAAP to contracts, hedging relationships and other transactions that reference the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) or another reference rate expected to be discontinued because of reference rate reform. The expedients and exceptions provided by Topic 848 are effective for all entities as of March 12, 2020 through December 31, 2022. In December 2022, the FASB issued ASU 2022-06, Reference Rate reform (Topic 848): Deferral of the Sunset Date of Topic 848, which deferred the sunset date of Topic 848, Reference Rate Reform to December 31, 2024, after which entities will no longer be permitted to apply the relief in Topic 848. The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, “Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment,” which eliminates step two from the goodwill impairment test. Under ASU 2017-04, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value up to the amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. ASU 2017-04 became effective for accelerated filing companies for annual periods or any interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. All other entities, including not-for-profit entities, that are adopting the amendments in this Update should do so for their annual or any interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022. Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The Company has adopted ASU 2017-04. See disclosures above on Goodwill for further details.

The Company does not believe other recently issued but not yet effective accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the consolidated financial position, statements of operations and cash flows.

Recent Financings

Asset-based revolving loan

On November 12, 2021, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (“JPM”), as administrative agent, issuing bank and swingline lender, for an asset-based revolving loan (“ABL”) of up to $25 million with key terms listed as follows:

In addition, the ABL includes an accordion feature that allows the Company to borrow up to an additional $25 million. To secure complete payment and performance of the secured obligations, the Company granted a security interest in all of its right, title and interest in, to and under all of the Company’s assets as collateral to the ABL. Upon closing of the ABL, the Company paid $796,035 financing fees including 2% of $25.0 million or $500,000 paid to its financial advisor. The financing fees are recorded as debt discount and to be amortized over three years as financing expenses, the term of the ABL.

Below is a summary of the interest expense recorded for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023:

As of June 30, 2024 and 2023, the outstanding amount of the JPM revolving loan payable, net of debt discount and including interest, was $5,500,739 and $9,791,191, respectively.

On October 7, 2022, the Company entered into a second amendment to the credit agreement and consent (the “Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement”), originally dated November 12, 2021, as amended, with JPM, as administrative agent and lender. The Company entered into the Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement primarily for the purpose of changing the interest rate repayment calculations from LIBOR to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or SOFR, which adjustment had originally been anticipated under the terms of the original Credit Agreement. In addition, two of the negative covenants set forth in the original credit agreement were amended in order to (i) adjust the definition of “Covenant Testing Trigger Period” to increase the required cash availability from $3,000,000 to $4,000,000, or 10% of the aggregate revolving commitment for the preceding 30 days, and (ii) require that the Company will not and will not permit any of its subsidiaries, after reasonable due diligence and due inquiry, to knowingly sell their products, inventory or services directly to any commercial businesses that grow or cultivate cannabis; it being acknowledged, however, that the Company does not generally conduct due diligence on its individual retail customers.

On November 11, 2022, the Company and JPM entered into a default waiver and consent agreement (the “Waiver Letter”) pursuant to which the parties recognized that the Company was in default on its failure to satisfy the minimum Excess Availability requirement of $7,500,000, as defined in the Credit Agreement, and deliver a certificate to JPM accurately reflecting the Excess Availability (together, the “Existing Defaults”). Under the terms of the Waiver Letter, JPM agreed to waive the right to enforce an event of default based on the aforementioned Existing Defaults. As of June 30, 2024 and 2023, the Company was in compliance with the ABL covenants.

Promissory note payable

On February 15, 2022, as part of the consideration for the acquisition of Anivia, the Company issued a two-year unsecured 6% subordinated promissory note, payable in equal semi-annual installments commencing August 15, 2022 (the “Purchase Note”). The principal amount of the Purchase Note was $3.5 million with a fair value of $3.6 million as of February 15, 2022, the issuance date. In October 2022, the Company paid the first installment of $875,000, and in February 2023, the Company paid the second installment of $875,000. In August 2023, the Company paid the third installment of $875,000. In February 2024, the Company paid the fourth installment of $875,000. For the year ended June 30, 2024, the Company recorded accrued interest of $39,429 and amortization of note premium of $31,602. For the year ended June 30, 2023, the Company recorded accrued interest of $157,500 and amortization of note premium of $50,418. As of June 30, 2024, the total outstanding balance of the Purchase Note was $0. As of June 30, 2023, including $236,250 of accrued interest and $31,602 of unamortized premium, the total outstanding balance of the Purchase Note was $2,017,852, which is presented on the consolidated balance sheet as a current portion of $2,017,852 and a non-current portion of $0.

Short-term loans payable

On July 8, 2023, the Company entered into an agreement with White Cherry Limited (“White Cherry”), a BVI company owned by the former owner of DHS, for an on-demand, unsecured and subordinated loan (“On-demand Loan”). Pursuant to the agreement, White Cherry agreed to loan the Company the amount requested. The On-demand Loan bears interest at the rate of the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or SOFR, plus 1% per annum. The On-demand Loan is due in 30 days upon receipt of White Cherry’s notice of repayment. On July 16, 2023, the Company borrowed $2,000,000 from White Cherry, repaid $1 million on July 31, 2023 and $1 million on January 31, 2024. For the year ended June 30, 2024, the Company recorded interest of $32,911. As of June 30, 2024, the outstanding balance of the On-demand Loan was fully paid off.

On April 8, 2024, the Company entered into an agreement with an unrelated accredited investor (the “Investor”) for an on-demand, unsecured and subordinated loan (“On-demand Loan 2”). Pursuant to the agreement, the Investor agreed to loan the Company the amount requested. The On-demand Loan 2 bears interest at the rate of the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or SOFR, plus 1.5% per annum. The On-demand Loan 2 is due in 30 days upon receipt of the Investor’s notice of repayment. For the year ended June 30, 2024, the Company borrowed $483,599 and recorded interest expense of $7,615. As of June 30, 2024, the outstanding balance of the On-demand Loan 2, including accrued interest of $7,615, was $491,214.

On April 1, 2024, the Company borrowed $350,000 short-term loan (“RP Loan”) from an entity owned by Mr. Allan Huang, one of the majority shareholders of the Company. The RP Loan bears no interest and is due upon receipt of request of repayment. As of June 30, 2024, the outstanding balance of the RP Loan was $350,000.

June 2024 Registered Direct Offering 

On June 18, 2024, the Company, closed on a Registered Direct Offering of 2,083,334 Shares and a concurrent Private Placement of Warrants to purchase 2,083,334 Warrant Shares, which were sold for gross aggregate proceeds of $5,000,002. The Shares were sold pursuant to a prospectus supplement, filed on June 18, 2024, to the Registration Statement on Form S-3, originally filed on September 25, 2023, with the SEC (File No. 333-274665), and declared effective by the SEC on September 29, 2023. The Warrants, which were issued pursuant to an exemption from registration pursuant to Section 4(a) or Regulation D on the Securities Act, have a term of five years and are immediately exercisable at $2.40 per share. The Shares and Warrants were sold to a purchaser pursuant to a securities purchase agreement, dated June 16, 2024, between the Company and the purchaser (the “Purchase Agreement”). Roth Capital Partners, LLC (the “Placement Agent”) acted as placement agent, pursuant to a placement agency agreement between the Company and the Placement Agent dated June 16, 2024 (the “Placement Agency Agreement”). The Company paid the Placement Agent as compensation a cash fee equal to 6.5% of the gross proceeds of the offering plus reimbursement of certain expenses and legal fees. The net proceeds of the offering, after deducting the Placement Agent’s fees and expenses and other offering expenses payable by the Company, is approximately $4,543,089.

A holder will not have the right to exercise any portion of the Warrants if the holder (together with its affiliates) would beneficially own in excess of 4.99% (or, at the election of the holder, 9.99%), respectively, of the number of shares of common stock outstanding immediately after giving effect to the exercise, as such percentage ownership is determined in accordance with the terms of the Warrants. However, upon notice from the holder to the Company as described in the Purchase Agreement, the holder may increase the beneficial ownership limitation, which may not exceed 9.99% of the number of shares of common stock outstanding immediately after giving effect to the exercise of Warrants.

According to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, on July 9, 2024, we filed a Form S-1 to register the resale, from time to time, of up to an aggregate of 2,083,334 Warrant Shares, issuable upon the exercise of the Warrants issued in the Private Placement by the selling stockholder named therein. The resale registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on July 26, 2024. As of June 30, 2024, no Warrants have been exercised.

Emerging Growth Company

We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act. Accordingly, certain specified reporting and other regulatory requirements for public companies are reduced for businesses that meet the qualifications for emerging growth companies.

These provisions include:

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE