Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting the consolidated operating results, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows of our company as of and for the periods presented below. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based on the beliefs of management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, our management. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may occur in the future and actual results could differ materially from those discussed in or implied by forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and in the sections entitled “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements” included in this Annual Report.

Overview

General

InnovAge Holding Corp. (“InnovAge”) became a public company in March 2021. The Company served approximately 7,020 PACE participants as of June 30, 2024, making it the largest PACE provider in the U.S. based upon participants served, and operates 20 PACE centers across Colorado, California, Florida, New Mexico, Pennsylvania and Virginia. During the year ended June 30, 2024, the Company opened two de novo centers in Tampa and Orlando, Florida, and acquired two PACE centers in California from ConcertoCare, which include one operating center in the Crenshaw neighborhood of Los Angeles, and a second program that is a planned de novo in Bakersfield, California.

Operations

InnovAge’s programs are designed to allow frail seniors to live life on their terms by aging in place, in their own homes and communities, for as long as safely possible. Through our Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (“PACE”) program, we fulfill a broad range of medical and ancillary services for seniors, including in-home care services (skilled, unskilled and personal care), center services such as primary care, physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, dental services, mental health and psychiatric services, meals, and activities; transportation to and from the PACE center and third-party medical appointments; and care management. The Company manages its business as one reportable segment, PACE. 

We are the leading healthcare delivery platform by number of participants focused on providing all-inclusive, capitated care to high-cost, dual-eligible seniors. Our programs are designed to directly address two of the most pressing challenges facing the U.S. healthcare industry: rising costs and poor outcomes. Our participant-centered care delivery approach is designed to improve the quality of care our participants receive, while keeping them in their homes for as long as safely possible and reducing over-utilization of high-cost care settings such as hospitals and nursing homes. Our participant-centered approach is led by our Interdisciplinary Care Teams (“IDTs”), who oversee all aspects of each participant’s unique care plan and function as the core group of care providers to our participants. We directly manage and are responsible for all healthcare needs and associated costs for our participants, including housing costs, where applicable. We directly contract with government payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and do not rely on third-party administrative organizations or health plans. We believe our model aligns with how healthcare is evolving, namely (i) the shift toward value-based care, in which coordinated, outcomes-driven, quality care is delivered while reducing unnecessary spend, (ii) eliminating excessive administrative costs by contracting directly with the government, (iii) focusing on the patient experience and (iv) addressing social determinants of health.

Trends and Uncertainties Affecting the Company

Macroeconomic conditions. During fiscal year 2024, the U.S. continued to wrestle with inflation and the health industry continued to face increased wages due to labor shortages and increased competition among healthcare professionals. In fiscal year 2023 and 2024, in response to high levels of inflation, we implemented various mitigation strategies to reduce costs of operation, including consolidating services, price negotiations with providers and vendors and limiting corporate staffing, and effecting a reduction in workforce in December 2022 and October 2023. Inflationary pressures eased significantly during the second half of fiscal year 2024 and abated to normalized levels. The effects of inflation, after accounting for these mitigation strategies, were immaterial to our financial results for fiscal year 2024. 

Increased cost of care. In fiscal year 2024, operating expenses increased $49.6 million, or 6.7%, compared to 2023 due to (i) the increased cost of care and related cost per participant as a result of increased salaries, wages and benefits associated with increased headcount and higher wage rates and (ii) increased fleet and contract transportation due to an increase in external appointments related to growing census. Additionally, external provider costs increased in the fiscal year 2024 compared to 2023 due to annual increases in assisted living and nursing facility unit cost and general medical inflation. In an effort to mitigate the effects of these rising costs, in fiscal years 2023 and 2024, we implemented and continued certain clinical value initiatives designed to manage participant expenses and reduce low-value utilization of services and an infrastructure to ensure accurate reimbursement of services. During fiscal year 2024, we continued to strengthen our payer capabilities and reduced external provider costs, which we believe to be a result of our maturing clinical value initiatives. Additionally, in fiscal year 2024 we introduced operational value initiatives to complement our clinical value initiatives. These initiatives are focused on identifying value-creation opportunities at the center operating level and the selling, general and administrative level to drive staff productivity, operating efficiency and vendor unit economics from better leveraging people, process and technology. While we expect to continue to experience elevated operating expenses during fiscal year 2025 for similar reasons, we also expect that our clinical value initiatives will help offset increasing cost of care.

Census and capitation revenue. On May 11, 2023, President Biden allowed the national emergency and public health emergency declarations related to the COVID-19 pandemic to expire, which ended certain Medicaid waivers. While states have resumed processing new Medicaid applications and redeterminations of beneficiary eligibility, the healthcare industry, including the Company, experienced increased delays in the processing of such applications. As a result of such delays, the Company experienced an increase in gaps of eligibility with redetermination applications during fiscal year 2024, which is expected to continue through fiscal year 2025. While participants continue to receive care and remain enrolled with the Company during this time, the effect of such delays temporarily halts Medicaid revenue related to any closed application and simultaneously increases our risk of revenue recovery. In an effort to mitigate these risks, the Company utilizes State approved third-party eligibility partners to expedite applications, escalate delayed cases to State administrators, and pursue safe discharges for individuals who are truly ineligible. There has not been a material effect on the Company’s financial statements or operations due to this situation. The Company has experienced aging report accounts and financial losses being normalized to pre-public health emergency levels. The Company expects to continue these mitigating measures during fiscal year 2025 and will continue to assess the situation as it evolves.

Labor market. The healthcare sector continues to experience a complex set of challenges in hiring additional professionals. Specifically, the demand for healthcare services has been steadily increasing due to an aging population and a greater focus on health and wellness in society. In addition, there are systemic challenges related to workforce training and the pipeline of qualified professionals, which have not kept pace with this growing demand. Furthermore, high inflation experienced during fiscal year 2023, which continued through fiscal year 2024 increased the cost of living, and subsequently, wage pressure for healthcare professionals, with a shift towards an employee-centric market with an emphasis on competitive compensation, flexibility and professional growth opportunities, which contributed to an increasingly competitive labor market. In an effort to mitigate the effects of these challenges, we adopted strategies to offer competitive compensation packages. Partially as a result of increased competition and other market trends, in conjunction with increased staffing related to compliance and remediation efforts in our centers, there was an increase in the cost of care for the fiscal year 2024 compared to 2023, as discussed in "Results of Operations" below.

Additionally, on October 13, 2023, California passed into law California Senate Bill No. 525 ("SB 525"), which would raise the minimum wage for many California healthcare workers. SB 525 becomes effective when certain financial metrics within the State of California are met. Even though SB 525 is not yet effective and PACE centers are not covered by it, many of our contractors and other third-party providers are expected to be impacted by SB 525, and we believe that due to this and other macroeconomic factors, our California centers have received provider requests to increase rates to cover their increased costs. In addition, as a result of competition generated by SB 525 and other California market conditions, we have increased our wages for healthcare workers and other comparable market positions in the California market. These increases did not have a material impact on our labor costs, financial statements or operations for the fourth quarter or fiscal year 2024. We will continue to evaluate the impact of this legislation on our business.

In addition, in fiscal year 2024, the nurses in our Pennsylvania centers voted to unionize and collective bargaining commenced in late 2024. These employees represent approximately 1% of our total workforce. We currently do not expect the impact from the negotiated collective bargaining agreement and costs for unionized employees to have a material effect on our costs of labor or operations. However, we cannot predict whether other employees will follow a similar course of action.

For additional information on the various risks posed by macroeconomic events, regulation, and employee matters, please see the section entitled “Risk Factors” included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report.

Key Factors Affecting Our Performance

Our historical financial performance has been, and we expect our financial performance in the future to be, driven by the following factors:

•Our participants. We focus on providing all-inclusive care to frail, high-cost, dual-eligible seniors. We directly contract with government payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, through PACE and receive a capitated risk-adjusted payment to manage the totality of a participant’s medical care across all settings. InnovAge manages participants that are, on average, more complex and medically fragile than other Medicare-eligible patients, including those in Medicare Advantage (“MA”) programs. As a result, we receive larger payments for our participants compared to MA participants. This is driven by two factors: (i) we believe we manage a higher acuity population, with an average RAF score of 2.46 based on InnovAge data as of June 30, 2024, compared to an average RAF score of 1.08 for Medicare fee-for-service non-dual enrollees, as calculated in an analysis by Avalere Health in June 2020 of a cohort of individuals enrolled in Medicare Fee-for-Service in 2019; and (ii) we have Medicaid spend in addition to Medicare. Our participants are managed on a capitated, or at-risk basis, where InnovAge is financially responsible for all participant medical costs. Our comprehensive care model and globally capitated payments are designed to cover participants from enrollment until the end of life, including coverage for participants requiring hospice and palliative care. For dual-eligible participants, we receive PMPM payments directly from Medicare and Medicaid, which provides recurring revenue streams and significant visibility into our revenue. The Medicare portion of our capitated payment is risk-based on the underlying medical conditions and frailty of each participant. In fiscal year 2023, we began working on expanding payer capabilities which we continued to strengthen in fiscal 2024 so that our revenue more accurately reflects the acuity of the populations we serve.

•Our ability to grow enrollment and capacity within existing centers. We believe all seniors should have access to the type of all-inclusive care offered by the PACE model. Several factors can affect our ability to grow enrollment and capacity within existing centers, including sanctions issued by regulators or suspensions of State attestations required to open new de novo centers.

•Our ability to maintain high participant satisfaction and retention. Our comprehensive individualized care model and frequency of interaction with participants generates high levels of participant satisfaction. We achieved an average NPS score of 46 for fiscal year 2024 and average participant tenure of 3.6 years as of June 30, 2024, measured as tenure from enrollment to disenrollment, among our centers that have been operated by us for at least five years. Furthermore, we experience low levels of voluntary disenrollment, averaging 6.9% annually over the last three fiscal years. 

•Effectively managing the cost of care for our participants. We receive capitated payments to manage the totality of a participant’s medical care across all settings. The risk pool of our population became more acute in fiscal year 2023 as we were not able to replenish our population mix with newer, lower-acuity participants as a result of State sanctions. Together with the factors disclosed above (increased salaries, wages and benefits, increased fleet and contract transportation costs, annual increases in assisted living and nursing facility unit cost and general medical inflation), our external provider costs and cost of care, excluding depreciation and amortization, represented approximately 83% of our revenue in the year ended June 30, 2024. 

•Center-level Contribution Margin. The Company’s management uses Center-level Contribution Margin as the measure for assessing performance of its operating segments. As we serve more participants in existing centers, we expect to leverage our fixed cost base at those centers and increase the value of a center to our business increases over time.

•Our ability to expand via de novo centers within existing and new markets. Several factors can affect our ability to open de novo centers, including sanctions issued by regulators, legal, community or other obstacles in the construction of such centers, and our ability to hire and train enough workers to ramp up these centers to maturity.

In response to an audit to our Sacramento center and a medical review of our San Bernardino center, which have been previously disclosed, the California Department of Health Care Services (“DHCS") notified us 

that it was suspending its attestations in support of the planned de novo center in Downey and the recently acquired planned de novo center in Bakersfield. CMS has closed its process and DHCS's process is ongoing. While the planned California de novo centers are precluded from opening at this time, DHCS notified us that it would consider restoring the State Attestations upon our successful remediation of the deficiencies raised in our Sacramento center.

•Execute tuck-in acquisitions and partnerships. Over the past six fiscal years, we have acquired and integrated four PACE organizations for a total of eight operational centers (excluding the PACE center in Bakersfield, California, which is not yet operational). These acquisitions represent expansion of our InnovAge Platform into one new state and five new markets. By bringing acquired organizations under the InnovAge Platform, we hope to further realize revenue growth and improve operational efficiency and care delivery post-integration. We also have pursued and intend to continue pursuing additional relationships with key stakeholders, existing organizations and other care providers in order to form partnerships in target geography, such as the joint venture we entered into at our Orlando PACE center with Orlando Health during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2024.

•Our ability to maintain high quality of regulatory compliance. The Company’s priority is to continue to maintain high quality of regulatory compliance in all its centers.

•Contracting with government payors. Our economic model relies on our capitated arrangements with government payors, namely Medicare and Medicaid. We view the government not only as a payor but also as a key partner in our efforts to expand into new geographies and access more participants in our existing markets. Maintaining, supporting and growing these relationships, in existing markets as well as new geographies, is critical to our long-term success.

•Investing to support growth. We intend to continue investing in our centers, value-based care model, and sales and marketing organization to support long-term growth. We expect our expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future to support our growth due, partially, to additional costs we incur in connection with audits to our centers, remediation plans and current and potential legal and regulatory proceedings. We plan to invest in future growth judiciously and maintain focus on managing our results of operations. We are investing to increase our sophistication as a payor to drive clinical value, improve outcomes, and manage cost trends. Accordingly, in the short term we expect the activities noted above to increase our expenses as a percentage of revenue, but in the longer term, we anticipate that these investments will positively impact our business and results of operations.

•Seasonality to our business. Our operational and financial results, including medical costs and per-participant revenue true-ups, will experience some variability depending upon the time of year in which they are measured. Medical costs vary most significantly as a result of (i) the weather, with certain illnesses, such as the influenza and COVID-19 viruses, being more prevalent during colder months of the year, which generally increases per-participant costs and (ii) the number of business days in a period, with shorter periods generally having lower medical costs all else equal. Per-participant revenue true-ups represent the difference between our estimate of per-participant capitation revenue to be received and actual revenue received from CMS, which is based on CMS’s determination of a participant’s RAF score as measured twice per year and is based on the evolving acuity of a participant. Where there is a difference between our estimate and the final determination from CMS, we may record either an increase or decrease in true up revenue. Historically, these true-up payments typically occur between May and August, but the timing of these payments is determined by CMS, and we have neither visibility into nor control over the timing of such payments. The variability of participant enrollments during the open enrollment period has also been impacted by additional offerings by MA and other competitors. We believe that, as a result of these additional offerings, we experienced higher than expected disenrollments during fiscal year 2024.

Components of Results of Operations

Revenue

Capitation Revenue. In order to provide comprehensive services to manage the totality of a participant’s medical care across all settings, we receive fixed or capitated fees per participant that are paid monthly by Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Affairs (“VA”) and private pay sources. The concentration of capitation revenue from our various payors was:

*denotes less than 1%

Medicaid and Medicare capitation revenues are based on PMPM capitation rates under the PACE program. The PACE state contracts between us and the respective state Medicaid administering agency are amended annually each June 30 in all states other than California and Pennsylvania, which contract on a calendar-year basis. We are currently operating in good standing under each of our PACE state contracts. For a discussion of our revenue recognition policies, please see Critical Accounting Estimates below and Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.

Other Service Revenue. Other service revenue primarily consists of revenues derived from state food grants and rent revenues. For a discussion of our revenue recognition policies, please see Critical Accounting Estimates below and Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.

Operating Expenses

External Provider Costs. External provider costs consist primarily of the costs for medical care provided by non-InnovAge providers. We separate external provider costs into four categories: inpatient (e.g., hospital), housing (e.g., assisted living and skilled nursing facility), outpatient and pharmacy. In aggregate, external provider costs represent the largest portion of our expenses.

Cost of Care, Excluding Depreciation and Amortization. Cost of care, excluding depreciation and amortization, includes the costs we incur to operate our care delivery model. This includes costs related to salaries, wages and benefits for IDT and other center-level staff, participant transportation, medical supplies, occupancy, insurance and other operating costs. IDT employees include medical doctors, registered nurses, social workers, physical, occupational, and speech therapists, nursing assistants, and transportation workers. Other center-level employees include clinic managers, dieticians, activity assistants and certified nursing assistants. Cost of care excludes any expenses associated with sales and marketing activities incurred at a local level as well as any allocation of our corporate, general and administrative expenses. A portion of our cost of care, including our employee-related costs, is directly related to the number of participants cared for in a center. The remainder of our cost of care is fixed relative to the number of participants we serve, such as occupancy and insurance expenses. As a result, as revenue increases due to census growth, cost of care, excluding depreciation and amortization, moderately decreases as a percentage of revenue. As we open new centers, we expect cost of care, excluding depreciation and amortization, to increase in absolute dollars due to higher census and facility related costs. 

Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist of employee-related expenses, including salaries, commissions, and employee benefits costs, for all employees engaged in marketing, sales, community outreach and sales support as well as financial eligibility support for both prospective and existing participants. These employee-related expenses capture all costs for both our field-based and corporate sales and marketing teams. Sales and marketing expenses also include local and centralized advertising costs, as well as the infrastructure required to support our marketing efforts. We expect these costs to increase in absolute dollars over time as we continue to grow our participant census. We evaluate our sales and marketing expenses relative to our participant growth and will invest more heavily in sales and marketing from time-to-time to the extent we believe such investment can accelerate our growth without negatively affecting profitability. 

Corporate, General and Administrative Expenses. Corporate, general and administrative expenses include employee-related expenses, including salaries and related costs. In addition, general and administrative expenses include all corporate 

technology and occupancy costs associated with our corporate office. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars due to the additional legal, accounting, insurance, investor relations and other costs that we incur as a public company, as well as other costs associated with compliance and continuing to grow our business. However, we anticipate general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue over the long term, although such expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period due to the timing and amount of these expenses. 

Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization expenses are primarily attributable to our buildings and leasehold improvements and our equipment and vehicles. Depreciation and amortization are recorded using the straight-line method over the shorter of estimated useful life or lease terms, to the extent the assets are being leased. 

For more information relating to the components of our results of operations, see Results of Operations below and Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more detailed information regarding our significant accounting policies.

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations for the periods presented. 

Revenues

Capitation revenue. Capitation revenue was $762.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2024, an increase of $75.7 million, or 11.0%, compared to $686.8 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. This increase was driven by a $30.8 million, or 4.5% increase in member months (as defined below under “Key Business Metrics and non-GAAP Measures – Total member months”) coupled with a $44.9 million, or 6.3%, increase in capitation rates. The increase in member months was primarily due to the release of sanctions at our Sacramento, California center and at our Colorado centers. The increase in capitation rates was primarily driven by an annual increase in both Medicaid capitation rates as determined by the States and Medicare capitation rates as a result of increased risk score and county rates. 

Expenses

External provider costs. External provider costs were $403.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2024, an increase of $28.5 million, or 7.6%, compared to $374.5 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $16.8 million, or 4.5% in member months coupled with an increase of $11.7 million, or 3.0%, in cost per participant. The increase in cost per participant was primarily driven by a $9.6 million increase associated with increased assisted living utilization and unit cost and a $3.6 million increase associated with higher professional services utilization. This was partially offset by a $5.1 million reduction in permanent nursing facility utilization. 

Cost of care, excluding depreciation and amortization. Cost of care, excluding depreciation and amortization expense was $228.8 million for the year ended June 30, 2024, an increase of $16.5 million, or 7.8%, compared to $212.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2023, primarily due to an increase of $7.0 million, or 3.1%, in cost per participant coupled with an increase of $9.5 million, or 4.5%, in member months. The increase in cost per participant was driven by (i) a $12.8 million increase in salaries, wages and benefits associated with increased headcount to support growth and higher wage rates, (ii) a $2.3 million increase in contract provider expense in California, (iii) $1.9 million in increased fleet expense and contract transportation as a result of higher average daily attendance, an increase in external appointments, and higher fuel costs, (iv) $1.2 million in increased building maintenance and security, (v) $1.8 million in software license fees, and (vi) $1.8 million in de novo occupancy and administrative costs inclusive of the Concerto acquisition in December 2023. This was partially offset by a $3.9 million reduction in third party audit and compliance support.

Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses were $25.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2024, an increase of $5.3 million, or 27.2%, compared to $19.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2023, primarily due to a $1.6 million increase in marketing spend and a $2.8 million increase in salaries, wages and benefits, both associated with sanction release in our Colorado and Sacramento, California centers as well as opening new centers in Florida.

Corporate, general and administrative expenses. Corporate, general and administrative expenses were $111.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2024, a decrease of $4.3 million, or 3.7% compared to $115.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to (i) $2.7 million reduction in third party legal expense, (ii) $2.3 million reduction in insurance expense, (iii) $4.5 million reduction in consulting expense associated with improving organizational 

capabilities including the transition to a new electronic medical record (“EMR”), (iv) $2.2 million reduction in contract staff augmentation, and (v) $1.0 million reduction in recruiting expense. These decreases were partially offset by (i) a $3.5 million increase in employee compensation and benefits as the result of an increase in headcount to support compliance and bolster organizational capabilities, (ii) $3.7 million in bad debt expense, and (iii) $1.2 million in consulting costs including Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 compliance, internal audit support, and public relations. 

Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense was $19.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2024, an increase of $3.5 million, or 22.9%, compared to $15.4 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increase in depreciation expense was a result of capital additions in the normal course of business.

Other Income (Expense)

*Not Meaningful

Interest expense, net. Interest expense, net, consists primarily of interest payments on our outstanding borrowings, net of interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash. Interest expense, net was $4.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2024, an increase of $2.5 million, or 164.3%, compared to $1.5 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increase was primarily due to interest expense of $7.5 million partially offset by interest income of $3.5 million from money market funds during the year ended June 30, 2024. Interest income during the year ended June 30, 2023 was $3.4 million from money market funds offsetting interest expense of $4.9 million.

Gain on cost and equity method investments. Gain on cost and equity method investment was $2.8 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 compared to no gain or loss for the year ended June 30, 2023. On March 13, 2024, Pinewood Lodge, LLLP (“PWD”), a variable interest entity of the Company, entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement for the sale of all of PWD's property, including its senior housing unit, which was used in our operations. On May 2, 2024, PWD closed on the sale of the property. In June 2024, the partnership was dissolved and we recognized a gain of $4.8 million from the dissolution of the partnership. See Note 4 “Cost and Equity Method Investments” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for further discussion. The gain was partially offset by impairment losses of $2.0 million in conjunction with our minority interest investment in Jetdoc, Inc. ("Jetdoc") during the year ended June 30, 2024. No observable price changes or impairments were recorded during the year ended June 30, 2023.

Other income. Other income consists primarily of the net proceeds received from the sale of or disposal of property and equipment, unrealized gains and losses and investment income related to short-term investments. Other income was $2.5 million for the year ended June 30, 2024, an increase of $2.4 million, compared to $0.1 million for the year ended June 30, 2023, due to $2.4 million in investment income related to short-term investments. Investment income during the year ended June 30, 2023 was $1.2 million offset by $1.1 million loss on disposal of capital assets.

Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes.

The Company and its subsidiaries calculate federal and state income taxes currently payable and for deferred income taxes arising from temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured pursuant to enacted tax laws and rates applicable to periods in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the date of enactment. The members of InnovAge Senior Housing Thornton, LLC (“SH1”) and InnovAge Sacramento have elected to be taxed as partnerships, and no provision (benefit) for income taxes for SH1 or InnovAge Sacramento is included in these consolidated financial statements. Further, the Company entered into a joint venture called InnovAge Florida PACE – Orlando on May 28, 2024 and its members elected to be taxed as a partnership. No provision (benefit) for income taxes for InnovAge Orlando is included in these consolidated financial statements for activity occurring from joint venture formation date through the balance of the fiscal year.

A valuation allowance is provided to the extent that it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized. Tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination based on the technical merits of the position. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. The Company recognizes interest and penalty expense associated with uncertain tax positions as a component of provision (benefit) for income taxes.

During the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, we reported provision (benefit) for income taxes of $1.4 million and $(7.2) million, respectively. The decrease of $8.6 million is primarily due to (i) pretax book loss recognized during the year ended June 30, 2024, as compared to the pretax book loss recognized during the year ended June 30, 2023 and (ii) the change in our valuation allowance. 

Net Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests.

InnovAge Senior Housing Thornton, LLC is a variable interest entity (“VIE”). The Company is the primary beneficiary of SH1 and consolidates SH1. The Company is the primary beneficiary of SH1 because it has the power to direct the activities that are most significant to SH1 and has an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from SH1. The most significant activity of SH1 is the operation of the housing facility. The Company has provided a subordinated loan to SH1 and has provided a guarantee for the convertible term loan held by SH1. The SH1 interest is reflected within equity as noncontrolling interests. Our share of earnings is recorded in the consolidated statements of operations as net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests.

Net Loss

During the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, we reported net loss of $23.2 million and $43.6 million, respectively, consisting of (i) operating loss of $23.2 million and $49.4 million, respectively, (ii) other income of $1.4 million and other expense of $1.4 million, respectively, and (iii) provision for income taxes of $1.4 million and benefit for income taxes of $7.2 million, respectively, each as described above. 

Key Business Metrics and Non-GAAP Measures

In addition to our GAAP financial information, we review a number of operating and financial metrics, including the following key metrics and non-GAAP measures, to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions. We believe these metrics provide additional perspective and insights when analyzing our core operating performance from period to period and evaluating trends in historical operating results. These key business metrics and non-GAAP measures should not be considered superior to, or a substitute for, and should be read in conjunction with, the GAAP financial information presented herein. These measures may not be comparable to similarly-titled performance indicators used by other companies.

___________________________________

(a)Includes InnovAge Sacramento and InnovAge Orlando, which the Company owns and controls through joint ventures and are consolidated in our financial statements. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, the Company opened the Orlando and Tampa centers and acquired an operational center from Concerto in Los Angeles.

(b)Amounts are approximate.

(c)Center-level Contribution Margin, Center-level Contribution Margin as a percentage of revenue, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are non-GAAP measures. For a definition and reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures for the period indicated, see below.

Centers

We define our centers as those centers open for business and attending to participants at the end of a particular period. 

Census

Our census is comprised of our capitated participants for whom we are financially responsible for their total healthcare costs.

Total member months

We define Total Member Months as the total number of participants as of period end multiplied by the number of months within a year in which each participant was enrolled in our program. We believe this is a useful metric as it more precisely tracks the number of participants we serve throughout the year.

Center-level Contribution Margin

The Company’s management uses Center-level Contribution Margin as the measure for assessing performance of its operating segments. We define Center-level Contribution Margin as total revenues less external provider costs and cost of care, excluding depreciation and amortization, which includes all medical and pharmacy costs. For purposes of evaluating 

Center-level Contribution Margin on a center-by-center basis, we do not allocate our sales and marketing expense or corporate, general and administrative expenses across our centers. Center-level Contribution Margin was $132.1 million and $101.3 million for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The increase in Center-level Contribution Margin for fiscal year 2024 was primarily due to a year-over-year increase of 11.0% in total revenue and 7.7% in center level expense during the same period. For more information relating to Center-level Contribution Margin, see Note 14 “Segment Reporting” to our consolidated financial statements. A reconciliation of Center-level Contribution Margin to loss before income taxes, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, for each of the periods is as follows:

___________________________________

Center-level Contribution Margin from a segment below the quantitative thresholds is attributable to the Senior Housing operating segment of the Company. This segment has never met any of the quantitative thresholds for determining reportable segments.

Overhead consists of the Sales and marketing and Corporate, general and administrative financial statement line items.

Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin

We define Adjusted EBITDA as net loss adjusted for interest expense, net, other investment income, depreciation and amortization, and provision (benefit) for income tax as well as addbacks for non-recurring expenses or exceptional items, including charges relating to management equity compensation, litigation costs and settlement, M&A diligence, transaction and integration, business optimization, EMR implementation and gain on cost and equity method investments. 

For the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, our net loss was $23.2 million and $43.6 million, respectively, representing a year-over-year improvement of 47%, and Adjusted EBITDA was $16.5 million and $(3.4) million, respectively, representing a year-over-year increase of 585%. 

Adjusted EBITDA margin is Adjusted EBITDA expressed as a percentage of our total revenue. For the year ended June 30, 2024, our net loss margin was 3.0%, compared to our net loss margin of 6.3% for the year ended June 30, 2023. For the year ended June 30, 2024, our Adjusted EBITDA margin was 2.2%, compared to our Adjusted EBITDA margin for the year ended June 30, 2023 of (0.5)%.

Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are supplemental measures of operating performance monitored by management that are not defined under GAAP and that do not represent, and should not be considered as, an alternative to net loss and net loss margin, respectively, as determined by GAAP. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are appropriate measures of operating performance because the metrics eliminate the impact of expenses that do not relate to our ongoing business performance and certain noncash expenses, allowing us to more effectively evaluate our core operating performance and trends from period to period. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin help investors and analysts in comparing our results across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that we do not believe are indicative of our core operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, the analysis of other GAAP financial measures, including net loss and net loss margin. In evaluating Adjusted EBITDA, you should be aware that in the future we may incur expenses that are the same as or similar to some of the adjustments in this presentation. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed to imply that our future results will be unaffected by the types of items excluded from the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA. Our use of the term Adjusted EBITDA varies from others in our industry. Effective for the year ended June 30, 2024, the Company has revised its 

calculation of Adjusted EBITDA to no longer exclude de novo center development costs and to reflect the impact of other investment income. The presentation for the year ended June 30, 2023 has been recast to conform to the current presentation.

A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, for each of the periods is as follows:

___________________________________

(a)Reflects investment income related to short term investments included in our consolidated statement of operations. Effective for the year ended June 30, 2024, the Company has revised the calculation for Adjusted EBITDA to reflect the impact of investment income in 2024 and 2023.

(b)Reflects a $1.2 million reserve for a California wage and hour class action settlement for the year ended June 30, 2023, and each of the years ended June 30, 2023 and 2024 included charges/(credits) related to litigation by stockholders, litigation related to de novo center, and civil investigative demands. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” included in this Annual Report. Costs reflected consist of litigation costs considered one-time in nature and outside of the ordinary course of business based on the following considerations which we assess regularly: (i) the frequency of similar cases that have been brought to date, or are expected to be brought within two years, (ii) complexity of the case, (iii) nature of the remedies sought, (iv) litigation posture of the Company, (v) counterparty involved, and (vi) the Company's overall litigation strategy.

(c)Reflects charges related to M&A transaction and integrations, including the Concerto acquisition in December 2023. Effective for the year ended June 30, 2024, the Company has revised the calculation for Adjusted EBITDA to no longer exclude de novo center development costs in 2024 and 2023. De novo center development costs were $1.0 million for each of the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023.

(d)Reflects charges related to business optimization initiatives. Such charges related to one-time investments in projects designed to enhance our technology and compliance systems, improve and support the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations, and third party support to address efforts to remediate deficiencies in audits. For the year ended June 30, 2024 costs include (i) $3.1 million associated with third party consultants as we implement our core provider initiatives, asses our risk-bearing payor capabilities, and strengthen our enterprise capabilities, (ii) $0.3 million of costs related to severance and other organizational costs, and (iii) $0.9 million related to charges for technology improvements, environmental sustainability, governance reporting, and other non-recurring projects aimed at reducing costs and improving efficiencies. For the year ended June 30, 2023, costs included (i) $1.8 million related to consultants and contractors performing audit and other related services at sanctioned centers, (ii) $5.7 million of costs associated with third party consultants to strengthen enterprise capabilities, (iii) $0.6 million related to the consolidation of the Germantown, Pennsylvania center, (iv) $1.1 million related to organizational restructure, and (v) $1.4 million related to other non-recurring projects aimed at reducing costs and improving efficiencies.

(e)Reflects non-recurring expenses relating to the implementation of a new EMR vendor.

(f)Reflects $4.8 million net benefit associated with the dissolution of the PWD partnership partially offset by $2.0 million impairment in Jetdoc investment.

Liquidity and capital resources

General

To date, we have financed our operations principally through cash flows from operations and through borrowings under our credit facilities, from the sale of common stock in our IPO that occurred in March 2021. As of the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents of $56.9 million and $127.2 million, respectively, a decrease of $70.3 million primarily due to the Concerto acquisition, deferred revenue due to the timing of payments received during the prior fiscal year, and a decrease in working capital. Our cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of highly liquid investments in demand deposit accounts and cash.

Our capital resources are generally used to fund (i) debt service requirements, the majority of which relate to the quarterly principal payments of the Term Loan Facility (as defined in Note 7 “Long-term Debt” to the audited consolidated financial statements) due 2026, (ii) finance and operating lease obligations, which are generally paid on a monthly basis and include maturities through 2028 and 2032, respectively, (iii) the operations of our business, (iv) income tax payments, which are generally due on a quarterly and annual basis, (v) capital additions, which include acquisition and de novo centers, and (vi) share repurchases authorized under the $5.0 million Board approved program. We also will continue investing in resources and initiatives to provide necessary and quality services to our participants. Collectively, these obligations are expected to represent a significant liquidity requirement of our Company on both a short-term (next 12 months) and long-term (beyond 12 months) basis. For additional information regarding our lease obligations, debt and commitments, see Notes 6 “Leases,” 7 “Long-term Debt,” and 9 “Commitments and Contingencies,” respectively, to our audited consolidated financial statements.

We believe that our cash and cash equivalents and our cash flows from operations, available funds and access to financing sources, including our Revolving Credit Facility (as discussed and defined below), will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital needs for the next 12 months and beyond. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Our actual results could vary because of, and our future capital requirements will depend on, many factors, including our growth rate, our ability to retain and grow the number of PACE participants, and the expansion of sales and marketing activities and other costs of operating the business. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected.

The 2021 Credit Agreement consists of a senior secured term loan (the “Term Loan Facility”) of $75.0 million principal amount and a revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) of $100.0 million maximum borrowing capacity. The borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility is subject (i) any issued amounts under our letters of credit and (ii) applicable covenant compliance restrictions and any other conditions precedent to borrowing. Principal on the Term Loan Facility is paid each calendar quarter in an amount equal to 1.25% of the initial term loan on closing date.

Outstanding principal amounts under the 2021 Credit Agreement accrue interest at a variable interest rate. As of June 30, 2024 and 2023, the interest rate on the Term Loan Facility was 7.18% and 6.95%, respectively. Under the terms of the 2021 Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility fee accrues at 0.25% of the average daily unused amount and is paid quarterly. As of June 30, 2024, we had no borrowings outstanding, $3.9 million of letters of credit issued, and $96.1 million of remaining capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of June 30, 2024, we also had $2.2 million principal amount outstanding under our convertible term loan. Monthly principal and interest payments are approximately $0.02 million, and the loan bears interest at an annual rate of 6.68%. The remaining principal balance is due upon maturity, which is August 20, 2030.

For more information about our debt, see Note 7 “Long-term Debt” to our audited consolidated financial statements. 

Our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations primarily relate to long-term debt and lease obligations. Expected timing of those payments are as follows: 

___________________________________

Represents principal amounts related to the 2021 Credit Agreement.

We adopted ASU 2016-02 on July 1, 2022, which requires lessees to recognize almost all leases on the balance sheet. See Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

We currently intend to retain substantially all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business and to repay indebtedness, other than with respect to share repurchases, and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Our consolidated statements of cash flows for the year ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 are summarized as follows:

Operating Activities. The change in net cash provided by (used in) operating activities was primarily due to the net effect of (i) a net loss of $23.2 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 compared to a net loss of $43.6 million during the prior year, as described further above, (ii) a decrease of $28.1 million in deferred revenue during fiscal year 2024 due to timing of payments received during the prior year, and (iii) an increase of $38.6 million in accounts receivable, net of allowance primarily due to timing for the receipt of payments in 2024.

Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities in 2024 was primarily made up of $23.9 million for the Concerto acquisition and approximately $7.9 million in purchases of property and equipment. In 2023, net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $23.4 million in purchases of property and equipment and $46.2 million for purchases of short-term investments, consisting primarily of managed income funds invested in investment grade short-term fixed and floating rate debt securities aimed at creating income while maintaining low volatility on principal. Our investment in managed income funds regularly pay dividends which are reinvested into the funds. 

Financing activities. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to a contribution from a joint venture partner in 2024.

Emerging Growth Company and Smaller Reporting Company

We qualify as an “emerging growth company” pursuant to the provisions of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (“JOBS”) Act and a “smaller reporting company” as defined by the Exchange Act. For as long as we are an “emerging growth company” or a “smaller reporting company,” we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” or “smaller reporting companies,” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, only being required to present two years of audited financial statements, plus unaudited 

condensed consolidated financial statements for applicable interim periods and the related discussion in the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports, proxy statements and registration statements, exemptions from the requirements of holding non-binding advisory “say-on-pay” votes on executive compensation and shareholder advisory votes on golden parachute compensation.

In addition, under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We intend to take advantage of the longer phase-in periods for the adoption of new or revised financial accounting standards under the JOBS Act until we are no longer an emerging growth company. Our election to use the phase-in periods permitted by this election may make it difficult to compare our financial statements to those of non-emerging growth companies and other emerging growth companies that have opted out of the longer phase-in periods permitted under the JOBS Act and who will comply with new or revised financial accounting standards. If we were to subsequently elect instead to comply with public company effective dates, such election would be irrevocable pursuant to the JOBS Act.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions, impacting our reported results of operations and financial condition.

Certain accounting policies involve significant judgments and assumptions by management, which have a material impact on the carrying value of assets and liabilities and the recognition of income and expenses. We consider these accounting policies to be critical accounting policies. The estimates and assumptions used by management are based on historical experience and other factors, which are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

While our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements, we believe the following discussion addresses our most critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require management to make subjective and complex judgments and estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Revenue recognition

We recognize revenue in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”). Our PACE operating unit provides comprehensive healthcare services to participants on the basis of estimated PMPM amounts we expect to be entitled to receive from the capitated fees per participant that are paid monthly by Medicare, Medicaid, the VA, and private pay sources. We recognize capitation revenues based on the estimated PMPM transaction price to transfer the service for a distinct increment of the series (i.e. month). We recognize revenue in the month in which participants are entitled to receive comprehensive care benefits during the contract term. Medicaid and Medicare capitation revenues are based on PMPM capitation rates under the PACE program, and Medicare rates can fluctuate throughout the contract based on the acuity of each individual participant. In certain contracts, PMPM rates also include “risk adjustments” based on various factors. For additional information see Note 3 “Revenue Recognition”. 

For certain capitation payments, the Company is subject to retroactive premium risk adjustments based on various factors. The Company estimates the amount of the adjustment based on participant medical status and historical experience. Such estimates are then recorded monthly on a straight-line basis. We review our assumptions and adjust these estimates accordingly on a quarterly basis. Our consolidated financial statements could be materially impacted if actual risk scores are different from the estimated risk scores. If our accrual estimates for risk scores at June 30, 2024 were to differ by 5%, the impact on revenues would be approximately $0.5 million.

Certain third-party payor contracts include a Medicare Part D payment related to pharmacy claims, which is subject to risk sharing through accepted risk corridor provisions. Under certain agreements the fund risk allocation is established whereby we, as the contracted provider, receive only a portion of the risk and the associated surplus or deficit. We estimate and recognize an adjustment monthly to Part D capitation revenues related to these risk corridor provisions based upon pharmacy claims experience to date, as if the annual risk contract were to terminate at the end of the reporting period. 

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of consideration paid over the fair value of net assets acquired through business acquisitions. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually.

We test goodwill for impairment annually on April 1 or more frequently if triggering events occur or other impairment indicators arise which might impair recoverability. These events or circumstances would include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale, disposition of a significant portion of the business, or other factors. Impairment of goodwill is evaluated at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is defined as an operating segment (i.e. before aggregation or combination), or one level below an operating segment (i.e. a component). For purposes of the annual goodwill impairment assessment, the Company has identified two reporting units, East and West. There were no indicators of impairment identified and no goodwill impairments recorded during the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023. In determining the fair value of our reporting units, we estimate a number of factors including anticipated future cash flows and discount rates. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from those estimates due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making such estimates.

Reported and estimated claims

Reported and estimated claims expenses are costs for third-party healthcare service providers that provide medical care to our participants for which we are contractually obligated to pay (through our full-risk capitation arrangements). The estimated reserve for unpaid claims liability is included in the liability for reported and estimated claims in the consolidated balance sheets and requires estimates including actual member utilization of healthcare services, unit cost trends, participant acuity, changes in net census, known outbreaks of disease or increased incidence of illness such as influenza or COVID-19 and other factors. We periodically assess our estimates with an independent actuarial expert to ensure our estimates represent the best, most reasonable estimate given the data available to us at the time the estimates are made.

We have included incurred but not reported claims of approximately $55.4 million and $43.0 million on our balance sheet as of June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Our recorded medical claims expense estimate is approximately within +/- 5-10% of actual medical claims expense incurred, or less than 1% of our total operating expense.

The following tables provide information about incurred and paid claims reporting and development as of June 30, 2024 (except as otherwise noted). The expenses recorded table reflects the amount of claims reported in our consolidated statements of operations as of the end of the applicable fiscal year based on our best and most reasonable estimates and actuarial assessment at the time of such determination. The cumulative actual incurred claims table represents the actual amount of claims incurred by the Company with the benefit of the passage of time. The cumulative actual paid claims table represents the actual amount of claims paid by the Company during the period. The variance between the expense recorded and the cumulative actual incurred claims ranges between approximately 1% and 3% of actual total incurred claims over the periods presented, and such variance may vary based on the factors described above in this section. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements” and “Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted” for more information.

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE