: MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This discussion and analysis reflects our audited consolidated financial statements and other relevant statistical data, and is intended to enhance your understanding of our financial condition and results of operations. The information in this section has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements, which appear beginning on page 53 of this Form 10-K.

Overview

Net Interest Income. Our primary source of income is net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income, which is the income we earn on our loans and investments, and interest expense, which is the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings.

Provision for Credit Losses on Loans. The allowance for credit losses on loans is established through charges to earnings in the form of a provision for credit losses. Loan losses are charged against the allowance for credit losses for the difference between the carrying value of the loan and the estimated net realizable value or fair value of the collateral, if collateral dependent, when management believes that the collectability of the principal is unlikely. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.

Non-interest Income. Our primary sources of non-interest income are mortgage banking income, service charges on deposit accounts and net gains in the cash surrender value of bank owned life insurance. Other sources of non-interest income include net gain on securities transactions, net gain or loss on disposal of foreclosed assets, gain on proceeds from life insurance death benefit, and other income.

Non-Interest Expenses. Our non-interest expenses consist of salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy and equipment, data processing and office, professional fees, marketing expenses and other general and administrative expenses, including premium payments we make to the FDIC for insurance of our deposits.

Income Tax Expense (Benefit). Our income tax expense (benefit) is the total of the current year income tax due or refundable and the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are the expected future tax amounts for the temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities, computed using enacted tax rates. A valuation allowance, if needed, reduces deferred tax assets to the amounts expected to be realized.

Summary of Significant Accounting Estimates

The discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations are based on our audited consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these audited consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of income and expenses. We consider the accounting policies discussed below to be significant accounting policies and estimates. The estimates and assumptions that we use are based on historical experience and various other factors and are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions, resulting in a change that could have a material impact on the carrying value of our assets and liabilities and our results of operations.

In 2012, the JOBS Act was signed into law. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, reduce certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. As an “emerging growth company” we may delay adoption of new or revised accounting pronouncements applicable to public companies until such pronouncements are made applicable to private companies. We intend to take advantage of the benefits of this extended transition period. Accordingly, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with such new or revised accounting standards.

The following represent our significant accounting estimates:

Allowance for Credit Losses on Loans. The allowance for credit losses on loans is established through charges to earnings in the form of a provision for credit losses. Loan losses are charged against the allowance for credit losses for the difference between the carrying value of the loan and the estimated net realizable value or fair value of the collateral, if collateral dependent, when management believes that the collectability of the principal is unlikely. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.

The allowance represents management’s current estimate of expected credit losses over the contractual term of loans, and is recorded at an amount that, in management’s judgment, reduces the recorded investment in loans to the net amount expected to be collected. No allowance for credit loss is recorded on accrued interest receivable and amounts written-off are reversed by an adjustment to interest income. Management’s judgment in determining the level of the allowance is based on evaluations of historical loan losses, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts relevant to the collectability of loans. Loans that share common risk characteristics are evaluated collectively using a weighted-average remaining maturity methodology. The weighted-average remaining maturity methodology uses an average annual charge-off rate as a foundation for estimating the credit loss for the remaining balances of all loan pools. The average annual charge-off rate is applied to the contractual term, further adjusted for estimated prepayments to determine the unadjusted historical charge-off rate. 

Management’s estimate of the allowance for credit losses on loans that are collectively evaluated also includes a qualitative assessment of available information relevant to assessing collectability that is not captured in the loss estimation process. This includes forecasts that are reasonable and supportable concerning expectations of future economic conditions. The reasonable and supportable forecast period is 24 months. This evaluation is inherently subjective, as it requires estimates that are susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available.

These qualitative risk factors include:

Each factor is assigned a value to reflect improving, stable or declining conditions based on management’s best judgment using relevant information available at the time of the evaluation. Adjustments to the factors are supported through documentation of changes in conditions in a narrative accompanying the allowance for credit losses calculation for our loan portfolio.

The evaluation also considers the following risk characteristics of each loan portfolio segment:

Loans that do not share common risk characteristics with other loans are evaluated individually and are not included in the collective analysis. The allowance for credit losses on loans that are individually evaluated may be estimated based on their expected cash flows, or, in the case of loans for which repayment is expected substantially through the operation or sale of collateral when the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, may be measured based on the fair value of the collateral less estimated costs to sell.

As an integral part of their examination process, various regulatory agencies review the allowance for credit losses on loans as well. Such agencies may require that changes in the allowance for credit losses on loans be recognized when such regulatory credit evaluations differ from those of management based on information available to the regulators at the time of their examinations.

Income Taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.

We recognize the tax effects from an uncertain tax position in the consolidated financial statements only if the position is more likely than not to be sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. We recognize the financial statement benefit of a tax position only after determining that the relevant tax authority would more likely than not sustain the position following an audit. For tax positions meeting the more-likely-than-not threshold, the amount recognized in the consolidated financial statements is the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized, upon ultimate settlement with the relevant tax authority. We recognize interest and penalties accrued or released related to uncertain tax positions in current income tax expense or benefit.

Allowance for Credit Losses on Available for Sale (“AFS”) Securities. Prior to implementation of CECL, unrealized losses on AFS debt securities caused by a credit event would require the direct write-down of the AFS security through the other-than-temporary impairment approach; however, the new standard requires credit losses to be presented as an ACL. The Company is still required to conduct an impairment evaluation on AFS securities to determine whether the Company has the intent to sell the security or it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell the security before recovery. If these situations apply, the guidance continues to require the Company to reduce the security's amortized cost basis down to its fair value through earnings. The Company also evaluates the unrealized losses on AFS securities to determine if a security's decline in fair value below its amortized cost basis is due to credit factors. The evaluation is based upon factors such as the creditworthiness of the underlying borrowers, performance of the underlying collateral, if applicable, and the level of credit support in the security structure. Management also evaluates other factors and circumstances that may be indicative of a decline in the fair value of the security due to a credit factor. This includes, but is not limited to, the extent to which fair value is less than amortized cost, the current interest rate environment, changes to rating of security or security issuer, and adverse conditions specifically related to the security among other factors. If this assessment indicates that a credit loss exists, the present value of the expected cash flows of the security is compared to the amortized cost basis of the security. If the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected is less than the amortized cost, an ACL is recorded for the credit loss, limited by the amount that the fair value is less than the amortized cost basis under the CECL standard, and declines due to non-credit factors are recorded in AOCI, net of taxes. If a credit loss is recognized in earnings, subsequent improvements to the expectation of collectability will be recognized through the ACL. If the fair value of the security increases above its amortized cost, the unrealized gain will be recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”), net of taxes, on the unaudited consolidated balance sheets. Accrued interest receivable on AFS securities is excluded from the estimate of credit losses. The Company did not record a cumulative-effect adjustment related to its AFS securities upon adoption of CECL on July 1, 2023. See Note 3, Debt Securities, to the audited consolidated financial statements under Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," for a description of the Company’s investment securities and impairment evaluation.

Allowance for Credit Losses on Held to Maturity (“HTM”) Securities. The Company’s portfolio of held to maturity securities consists of U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities which are highly rated by major rating agencies and have a long history of no credit losses. In estimating the net amount expected to be collected for held to maturity securities in an unrealized loss position, a historical loss based method is utilized.

Fair Value Measurements. The Company determines the fair value of certain assets in accordance with the provisions of FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic Accounting Standards Codification 820, Fair Value Measurements, which provides a framework for measuring fair value under generally accepted accounting principles.

Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. It is required that valuation techniques maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The Standard also establishes a fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the valuation inputs into three broad levels:

Selected Financial Data

The following selected consolidated financial data sets forth certain financial highlights of the Company and should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2024.

​

​

​

Comparison of Financial Condition at June 30, 2024 and June 30, 2023

Total Assets. Total assets decreased $19.6 million, or 8.2%, to $219.2 million at June 30, 2024 from $238.8 million at June 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $1.3 million, or 11.1%, in cash and cash equivalents, a decrease in net loans of $14.3 million, or 7.2%, a decrease in interest bearing deposits held in other financial institutions of $3.6 million, or 94.7%, a decrease in debt securities available for sale of $2.3 million, or 25.9% and finally, a decrease in foreclosed assets, net of $914,780, or 39.6%. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in premises and equipment of $2.0 million. The increase in premises and equipment was associated with the Bank’s new branch in Brookfield, Wisconsin which opened on January 22, 2024. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents. Total cash and cash equivalents decreased $1.3 million, or 11.1%, to $10.5 million at June 30, 2024 from $11.8 million at June 30, 2023, primarily due to a decrease in total deposits of $24.3 million offset by an increase in FHLB borrowings of $5.0 million, a decrease in net loans of $14.3 million, a decrease in interest bearing deposits held in other financial institutions of $3.6 million, and finally, a decrease in debt securities available for sale of $2.3 million. The Bank also purchased a building for $1.6 million for a new branch location.

Debt Securities Available for Sale. Total debt securities available for sale decreased $2.3 million, or 25.9%, to $6.6 million at June 30, 2024 from $8.9 million at June 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to the call of $1.7 million in corporate bonds. Debt securities available for sale are carried at fair value with the unrealized gain or loss reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

Loans. Gross loans decreased $14.6 million, or 7.3%, to $185.3 million at June 30, 2024 from $199.9 million at June 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in all categories of loans with the exception of multi-family real estate loans which increased by $0.9 million, or 2.1%, to $45.1 million at June 30, 2024 from $44.2 million at June 30, 2023. Consumer loans decreased by $1.2 million, or 43.0%, primarily due to the payoff of a consumer loan which was secured by a $650,000 certificate of deposit account. The decrease in construction loans was primarily due to two construction loans totaling $613,000 which were converted to permanent financings. The remaining categories of loan decreases (commercial real estate, commercial and industrial and one-to-four-family residential) were primarily due to repayments exceeding new loan growth.

Foreclosed Assets (OREO), net. Foreclosed assets decreased by $937,100, or 40.1%. During the year ended June 30, 2023, the Company foreclosed on collateral supporting a construction loan which was valued at $2.3 million and was included in foreclosed assets. The valuation was based on independent appraisals subject to certain discounts less estimated costs to sell. A subsequent independent appraisal was obtained in April 2024 subject to certain discounts less estimated costs to sell. After adjusting for estimated costs to sell, the revised valuation was $1.4 million resulting in a provision for valuation allowance of $937,000 being recorded in non-interest expenses during the year ended June 30, 2024.

Deposits. Total deposits decreased $24.3 million, or 12.3%, to $173.0 million at June 30, 2024 from $197.3 million at June 30, 2023. All categories of deposits decreased when comparing June 30, 2024 to June 30, 2023 with certificates of deposit decreasing the most by $16.1 million, or 19.2%. The decrease in all deposit categories was related to customers who changed banks to obtain higher rates and the Bank being less aggressive in matching competitor interest rates. Finally, we had a $4.2 million brokered certificate of deposit that matured in March 2024 and a $4.5 million brokered certificate of deposit that matured at the end of September 2023. Brokered certificates of deposit totaled $13.4 million and $22.2 million at June 30, 2024 and June 30, 2023, respectively. 

Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) Advances. FHLB advances increased $5.0 million to $13.0 million at June 30, 2024 compared to $8.0 million in FHLB advances at June 30, 2023 to provide additional funding associated with the decrease in deposits and the acquisition of a building for a new branch location. We were able to obtain more favorable borrowing rates from the FHLB than the rates that customers were requesting for certificates of deposit.

Stockholders’ Equity. Total stockholders’ equity remained virtually unchanged when comparing June 30, 2024 with June 30, 2023 with stockholders’ equity totaling $31.3 million at both dates.

Average Balance Sheets

The following table sets forth average balances, average yields and costs, and certain other information for the years indicated. No tax-equivalent yield adjustments have been made, as the effects would be immaterial. All average balances are daily average balances. Non-accrual loans were included in the computation of average balances. The yields set forth below include the effect of deferred fees, discounts, and premiums that are amortized or accreted to interest income or interest expense, as applicable. Loan balances include loans held for sale. Deferred loan fees accreted to interest income totaled $42,000 and $50,000 for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

​

Rate/Volume Analysis

The following table presents the effects of changing rates and volumes on our net interest income for the years indicated. The rate column shows the effects attributable to changes in rate (changes in rate multiplied by prior volume). The volume column shows the effects attributable to changes in volume (changes in volume multiplied by prior rate). The total column represents the sum of the prior columns. For purposes of this table, changes attributable to both rate and volume, which cannot be segregated, have been allocated proportionately based on the changes due to rate and the changes due to volume.

​

Comparison of Operating Results for the Years Ended June 30, 2024 and 2023

General. Net loss was $187,000 for the year ended June 30, 2024, a decrease of $1.9 million, or 111.2%, from net income of $1.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. The decrease in net income (loss) for the year ended June 30, 2024 was primarily attributable to an increase in expenses associated with foreclosed assets of $1.0 million, a decrease of $859,000 in net-interest income, and a decrease of $576,000 in non-interest income. These changes were partially offset by a recovery of loan losses of $190,000 and a decrease in the provision for income taxes of $504,000.

Interest Income. Interest income increased by $453,000, or 5.0%, to $9.4 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 compared to $9.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2023 primarily due to an increase in loan interest income associated with an increase in the average yield on loans offset by a slight decrease in the average balance of the loan portfolio. 

Loan interest income increased by $455,000, or 5.6%, to $8.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 from $8.2 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. The average yield on the loan portfolio increased by 28 basis points from 4.18% for the year ended June 30, 2023 to 4.46% for the year ended June 30, 2024 as a result of the high interest rate environment. The average balance of the loan portfolio decreased by $2.2 million, or 1.1%, from $195.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2023 to $193.5 million for the year ended June 30, 2024. The decrease in the average balance of the loan portfolio was primarily due to repayments exceeding new loan growth.

Debt securities interest income increased by $53,000, or 18.2%, to $345,000 for the year ended June 30, 2024 from $292,000 for the year ended June 30, 2023 due to a 58 basis points increase in the average yield on the debt securities portfolio to 3.21% for the year ended June 30, 2024 from 2.63% for the year ended June 30, 2023 offset in part by a $351,000 decrease in the average balance of debt securities to $10.8 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 due to 

securities paydowns. The increase in the average yield on debt securities was related to previous purchases of new securities at higher interest rates. 

Interest Expense. Interest expense increased $1.3 million, or 57.6%, to $3.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 from $2.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2023, due to an increase of $766,000 in interest paid on deposits and an increase of $546,000 in interest paid on borrowings.

Interest expense on deposits increased $766,000, or 35.2%, to $2.9 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 from $2.2 million for the year ended June 30, 2023 due to an increase in interest expense on all deposit categories except savings deposits as a result of an increase in the average rates paid on all deposit categories except savings deposits offset by a decrease in the average balances of all deposit categories. The average rate paid on demand, NOW and money market accounts and certificates of deposit increased with the average rate paid on demand, NOW and money market accounts increasing by 46 basis points and the average rate paid on certificates of deposit increasing 96 basis points. The increase in the average rate paid on all deposit categories except savings deposits was due to the Bank raising the interest rates on these deposit categories to maintain customers and keep the rates in line with what competitors were offering and to attract new funds to the Bank. The average balance of certificates of deposit decreased slightly by $2.7 million, or 3.3%, from $77.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2023 to $75.1 million for the year ended June 30, 2024. The average balance of interest-bearing demand, NOW and money market and savings accounts decreased by $10.1 million and $4.4 million, respectively. The decrease in the average balance of certificates of deposit accounts was due to the maturity of two brokered certificates of deposit totaling $8.7 million during the year ended June 30, 2024 offset by the offering of higher rate certificate of deposit balances due to higher market interest rates. The decrease in the average balance of interest-bearing demand, NOW, money market and savings deposits were related to customers who changed banks to obtain higher rates and the Bank being less aggressive in matching competitor interest rates.

Interest paid on FHLB borrowings increased $545,000, from $103,000 for the year ended June 30, 2023 to $648,000 for the year ended June 30, 2024. The increase in interest paid on borrowings was due to the average balance of FHLB advances increasing by $13.6 million and an increase in the average rate paid on borrowings of 69 basis points from 3.15% for the year ended June 30, 2023 to 3.84% for the year ended June 30, 2024. We were able to obtain more favorable borrowing rates from the FHLB than the rates that customers were requesting for certificates of deposit while also improving liquidity.

Net Interest Income. Net interest income decreased by $859,000, or 12.8%, to $5.8 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 from $6.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. Net interest-earning assets decreased by $4.5 million, or 11.0%, to $36.2 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 from $40.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. Net interest rate spread decreased by 41 basis points to 2.40% for the year ended June 30, 2024 from 2.81% for the year ended June 30, 2023, reflecting a 77 basis points increase in the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities offset by a 36 basis points increase in the average yield on interest-earning assets. The net interest margin decreased 29 basis points to 2.75% for the year ended June 30, 2024 from 3.04% for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increase in the average yield on interest earning assets for the year ended June 30, 2024 compared to the year ended June 30, 2023 was primarily due to an increase in market interest rates. The increase in the average interest rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities was due to the Bank raising the interest rates on all deposit categories to maintain customers and keep the rates in line with what competitors were offering, to attract new funds to the Bank and an increase in market interest rates on borrowings.

Provision for (Recovery of) Credit Losses. We charge (credit) provisions for (recovery of) credit losses to operations in order to maintain our allowance for credit losses on loans and reserve for unfunded commitments at a level that is considered reasonable and necessary to absorb expected credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio and expected losses on commitments to grant loans that are expected to be advanced at the consolidated balance sheet date. In determining the level of the allowance for credit losses, we consider our past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower’s ability to repay, the estimated value of any underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions, and the levels of non-performing and other classified loans. The amount of the allowance is based on estimates and the ultimate losses may vary from such estimates as more information becomes available or conditions change. We assess the allowance for credit losses on a quarterly basis and make provisions for (recovery of) credit losses in order to maintain the allowance.

Based on our evaluation of the above factors, we recorded a recovery of credit losses of $190,000 for the year ended June 30, 2024 compared to no provision for credit losses for the year ended June 30, 2023. The recovery was related to an improvement in the current and projected future economic conditions in our market area and the decline in the overall loan portfolio. We anticipate low unemployment and that the housing price index (HPI) will improve over the next two years due to continued high demand and the low inventory of residential real estate. These predictions align with the Bank’s historic charge-off history over the past 8-10 years. The allowance for credit losses was $1.8 million, or 0.97%, of loans outstanding at June 30, 2024 and $2.2 million, or 1.08%, of loans outstanding at June 30, 2023.

To the best of our knowledge, we have recorded our best estimate of expected losses in the loan portfolio and for unfunded commitments at June 30, 2024. However, future changes in the factors described above, including, but not limited to, actual loss experience with respect to our loan portfolio, could result in material increases in our provision for credit losses. In addition, the WDFI and the FDIC, as an integral part of their examination process, will periodically review our allowance for credit losses, and as a result of such reviews, we may have to adjust our allowance for credit losses. However, regulatory agencies are not directly involved in establishing the allowance for credit losses as the process is our responsibility and any increase or decrease in the allowance is the responsibility of management.

Non-Interest Income. Non-interest income information is as follows.

​

​

Non-interest income decreased by $576,000 to $726,000 for the year ended June 30, 2024 from $1.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2023 due primarily to a gain on proceeds from a life insurance death benefit, a gain on the acquisition of foreclosed assets, and net gain on securities transactions of $261,000, 247,000 and $24,000, respectively, being recognized during the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to no such amounts being recognized during the year ended June 30, 2024. Service charges on deposit accounts and mortgage banking income also decreased slightly. 

Non-Interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses information is as follows.

​

Non-interest expenses were $7.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 compared to $5.9 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increase was primarily related to an increase in expenses associated with foreclosed assets of $1.0 million, an increase in occupancy and equipment expenses of $127,000 and minor increases in other expense which were offset by a decrease of $214,000 in salaries and employee benefits when comparing the two years. The increase in expenses associated with foreclosed assets was primarily related to the recording of a valuation allowance of $937,000 during the year ended June 30, 2024 associated with a new appraisal obtained on the Company’s only foreclosed asset. For further information, please see Comparison of Financial Condition at June 30, 2024 and June 30, 2023- Foreclosed Assets above. The increase in occupancy and equipment expense was related to the new branch opening in January 2024. The increase in other expenses was primarily related to an increase in FDIC insurance premiums and to a lesser extent, check fraud losses. The decrease in salaries and employee benefits was primarily related to the prior year including a bonus accrual compared to no bonus accrual for the current year. 

Provision for (Recovery from) Income Taxes. Income tax benefit was $59,000 for the year ended June 30, 2024, a decrease of $504,000, as compared to income tax expense of $445,000 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The decrease in income tax expense was primarily the result of a decrease in income (loss) before income taxes of $2.4 million which was offset by a change in Wisconsin tax law that provides for a subtraction from the Bank’s state taxable income for loan and fee interest income from certain commercial and agricultural loans. Based upon the provisions of this new state tax law, management determined that the Company was highly unlikely to incur a material Wisconsin tax liability in the foreseeable future, instead generating Wisconsin net operating loss carryforwards that would never be realized. Since the state rate at which net deferred tax assets are expected to be realized is 0%, the Company eliminated its state net deferred tax asset balances as of July 1, 2023, resulting in deferred tax expense of approximately $112,000 for the year ended June 30, 2024. A summary of income tax expense (benefit) compared to the federal income tax statutory rate is set forth in Note 12 to the Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity describes our ability to meet the financial obligations that arise in the ordinary course of business. Liquidity is primarily needed to meet the borrowing and deposit withdrawal requirements of our customers and to fund current and planned expenditures. Our primary sources of funds are deposits, principal and interest payments on loans and securities, proceeds from the sale of loans, and proceeds from maturities of securities. We also have the ability to borrow from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago. At June 30, 2024, we had a $79.5 million line of credit with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago, which had $13.0 million in borrowings outstanding as of that date. The Bank also has $25.0 million available to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank when pledging acceptable assets and an unsecured Federal Funds purchasing limit of $5.0 million with the Bank’s correspondent bank. There were no borrowings under these arrangements at June 30, 2024. 

While maturities and scheduled amortization of loans and securities are predictable sources of funds, deposit flows and loan prepayments are greatly influenced by general interest rates, economic conditions, and competition. Our most liquid assets are cash and short-term investments including interest-bearing demand deposits. The levels of these assets are dependent on our operating, financing, lending, and investing activities during any given period.

Our cash flows are comprised of three primary classifications: cash flows from operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $417,000 and $2.0 million for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Net cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities, which consists primarily of disbursements for loan originations, the purchase of securities and the purchase of bank owned life insurance, offset by principal collections on loans, proceeds from the sale of securities and proceeds from maturing securities and pay downs on securities, was $17.7 million provided by investing activities for the year ended June 30, 2024 compared to $14.4 million used in investing activities for the year ended June 30, 2023. Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities, consisting of activity in deposit accounts and borrowings was $19.4 million used in financing activities compared to $15.8 million provided by financing activities for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

We are committed to maintaining a strong liquidity position. We monitor our liquidity position on a daily basis. We anticipate that we will have sufficient funds to meet our current funding commitments. Based on our deposit 

retention experience, current pricing strategy and regulatory restrictions, we anticipate that a substantial portion of maturing time deposits will be retained, and that we can supplement our funding with borrowings in the event that we allow these deposits to run off at maturity.

At June 30, 2024, Marathon Bank was classified as “well capitalized” for regulatory capital purposes. See Note 16 in the Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations

Commitments. As a financial services provider, we routinely are a party to various financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risks, such as commitments to extend credit and unused lines of credit. While these contractual obligations represent our future cash requirements, a significant portion of commitments to extend credit may expire without being drawn upon. Such commitments are subject to the same credit policies and approval process accorded to loans we make. At June 30, 2024, we had outstanding commitments to originate loans of $1.3 million, and outstanding commitments to sell loans of $418,000. We anticipate that we will have sufficient funds available to meet our current lending commitments. Time deposits that are scheduled to mature in one year or less from June 30, 2024 totaled $44.8 million. Management expects that a substantial portion of the maturing time deposits will be renewed. However, if a substantial portion of these deposits is not retained, we may utilize Federal Home Loan Bank advances or other borrowings, which may result in higher levels of interest expense.

Contractual Obligations. In the ordinary course of our operations, we enter into certain contractual obligations. Such obligations include data processing services, operating leases for premises and equipment, agreements with respect to borrowed funds and deposit liabilities.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Please refer to Note 1 of the notes to consolidated the financial statements beginning on page 60 for a description of recent accounting pronouncements that may affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Impact of Inflation and Changing Price

The financial statements and related data presented herein have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The primary impact of inflation on our operations is reflected in increased operating costs. Unlike most industrial companies, virtually all of the assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates, generally, have a more significant impact on a financial institution’s performance than does inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily move in the same direction or to the same extent as the prices of goods and services.

​