Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This discussion should be read in conjunction with Bowlero Corp.’s audited consolidated financial statements and notes included herein. This discussion contains forward-looking statements and involves numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described under the heading “Risk Factors.” Actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. All period references are to our fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company,” and “Bowlero” are intended to mean the business and operations of Bowlero Corp. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless otherwise indicated, all financial information in this section is presented in thousands.

Discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 is included in Item 7 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal period ended July 2, 2023.

Overview

Bowlero Corp. is one of the world’s premier operators of location-based entertainment. The Company operates traditional bowling locations and more upscale entertainment concepts with lounge seating, arcades, enhanced food and beverage offerings, and more robust customer service for individuals and group events, as well as hosting and overseeing professional and non-professional bowling tournaments and related broadcasting. The Company also operates other forms of location-based entertainment, such as Octane Raceway and Raging Waves water park.

The Company remains focused on creating long-term shareholder value through continued organic growth, the conversion and upgrading of locations to more upscale entertainment concepts offering a broader range of offerings, the opening of new locations and acquisitions. 

Recent Developments

Bowlero’s results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 exhibited the planned fiscal year 2024 reinvestment in the business through acquisitions, new builds, and conversions. To highlight the Company’s recent activity during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024:

•We expanded our location-based entertainment offerings through eight acquisitions in which we acquired 22 locations inclusive of 14 Lucky Strike locations and Raging Waves water park.

•We completed and opened three new build-outs and have a total of six signed agreements for build-outs in prime markets.

•We entered into a transaction with VICI Properties Inc. (“VICI”) relating to the transfer of land and real estate assets of 38 locations for an aggregate value of $432,900, providing a source of liquidity to accelerate new builds, deploy capital into acquisitions and conversions, return value to shareholders, pay down debt, and for general corporate purposes.

Presentation of Results of Operations

The Company reports on a fiscal year with each quarter generally comprised of one 5-week period and two 4-week periods. Our current and prior fiscal years were fifty-two weeks and ended on June 30, 2024 (“fiscal 2024”) and July 2, 2023 (“fiscal 2023”), respectively.

All amounts are presented in thousands, unless otherwise noted, except share and per share amounts.

Index to Financial Statements

Results of Operations

Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 Compared To the Fiscal Year Ended July 2, 2023

Analysis of Consolidated Statement of Operations. The following table displays certain items from our consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal years ended presented below:

___________

Percent calculated as a percentage of revenues and may not total due to rounding.

*Represents a change equal to or in excess of 100% or one that is not meaningful.

Revenues: For fiscal 2024, revenues totaled $1,154,614 and represented an increase of $95,824, or 9%, over the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenues is primarily attributable to revenue from newly acquired or leased locations and group event business, which was partially offset by a decrease in service fee revenue. 

Index to Financial Statements

___________

Revenues from 311 locations are included in the same-store comparable location base for the comparison in the above table. In our previously filed 10-K for the year ended July 2, 2023, revenues from 288 locations were included in the same-store revenue.

Service fee revenue is a mandatory gratuity passed through to the employee, which is a non-contributor to earnings and is being phased out across our locations.

Same-store revenues includes revenues from locations that are open in periods presented (open in both the current period and the prior period being reported) and excludes revenues from locations that are not open in periods presented such as acquired new locations or locations closed for upgrades, renovations or other such reasons, as well as media revenues. Revenues on a same-store basis remained flat as compared to fiscal 2023, which was primarily attributable strong league and group event business experienced throughout fiscal 2024 coupled with a strong consumer response to spring offerings and launch of a seasonal pass during the fourth quarter. This was offset by a reduction of mid-week promotions in early 2024 and adverse weather conditions during the third quarter that we believe led to a reduction in foot traffic.

Cost of Revenues: Our Cost of Revenues consisted of the following:

___________

Location operating costs primarily consist of rent, utilities, insurance, repairs & maintenance, property taxes, supplies, marketing, and other costs associated with Company locations. Location operating costs include both fixed and variable components and therefore do not directly correlate with revenues.

Increases in costs were in most areas and include labor, supplies, repairs & maintenance, depreciation, rent, property taxes, and utilities. The increase in costs was mainly attributable to location count growth from acquisitions and lease agreements since fiscal 2023, which contributed approximately $125,000 to cost of revenues. This was coupled with the increased sales volume and higher costs due to inflation. For instance, the increase in location payroll and benefit costs reflects the additional staffing and higher pay rates to support the growing business. Furthermore, the increase in depreciation reflects the added depreciable assets through acquisitions and capital expenditures and the increase in rent primarily reflects the added operating leases from the Lucky Strike acquisition. Additionally, amusement costs increased as a result of a higher volume of redemption merchandise payouts as part of our effort to improve customer satisfaction.

Selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”): SG&A expenses increased $17,284 or 13%. The increase is mainly attributable to our investment in the field management and event sales teams to support the growing business, which was partially offset by reductions in corporate staff. There have also been increases in professional fees attributable to the heightened acquisition activity and scale of acquisitions as compared to fiscal 2023. In addition to acquisition activity, the increase in professional fees is driven by legal costs related to advisory items. The increase is also attributable to the increase in revenues as compared to fiscal 2023. This is illustrated by the relatively consistent percent of revenues as compared to fiscal 2023.

Asset impairment: Asset impairment increased $58,610. The increase is mainly attributable to the reclassification of the Bowlero trade name intangible asset from indefinite lived to finite lived due to the planned rebranding of bowling locations.

Interest expense, net: Interest expense increased $66,760, or 60%, to $177,611. The higher interest expense is primarily the result of higher interest rates and our increased debt, financing obligations, and finance leases as compared to last fiscal year.

Change in fair value of earnouts: The unfavorable impact on the statement of operations during the year ended June 30, 2024, is due to the increase in the fair value of the earnouts, which mainly reflects the increase in the Company’s stock price during the period.

Other expense: Other expenses include various cost related to specific transactions that are not considered ongoing or frequently recurring activities as part of the Company’s operations. The decrease in other expenses is mainly due to the $6,786 in costs that were expensed associated with the refinancing of the First Lien Credit Facility Term Loan and Incremental Term Loan during the prior year. There has been no such transaction in fiscal 2024.

Index to Financial Statements

Income Taxes: Income tax benefit and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect management’s assessment of the Company’s tax position.

The current year income tax benefit was mainly driven by state and local income tax expenses, disallowed expenses associated with the earnout expense, S162(m) limitations and other items.

The prior year income tax benefit for fiscal 2023 is mainly due to the non-cash income tax benefit resulting from the release of a significant portion of the valuation allowances for deferred tax assets, as well as the favorable impact resulting from changes in estimates associated with certain income tax credits and tax deductible expenses, which were partially offset by state income tax expense, due to higher income and certain non-deductible expenses. 

The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Management performs a comprehensive review of our tax positions and accrues estimated amounts for applicable tax positions. Based on these reviews, the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities and the closure of tax years subject to tax audit, liabilities for applicable tax positions are adjusted as necessary. The Company currently has open income tax audits in Mexico and in one state.

Non-GAAP measure

Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that is not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. The Company believes certain financial measures which meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures provide important supplemental information. The Company considers Adjusted EBITDA as an important financial measure because it provides a financial measure of the quality of the Company’s earnings. Other companies may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do, which might limit its usefulness as a comparative measure. Adjusted EBITDA is used by management in addition to and in conjunction with the results presented in accordance with GAAP. We have presented Adjusted EBITDA solely as a supplemental disclosure because we believe it allows for a more complete analysis of results of operations and assists investors and analysts in comparing our operating performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that we do not believe are indicative of our core operating performance, such as Interest, Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, Impairment Charges, Share-based Compensation, EBITDA from Closed Locations, Foreign Currency Exchange Loss (Gain), Asset Disposition Loss (Gain), Transactional and other advisory costs, Change in the value of earnouts, and Other. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are that Adjusted EBITDA and trailing twelve month Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect:

•every expenditure, future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments;

•changes in our working capital needs;

•the interest expense, or the amounts necessary to service interest or principal payments, on our outstanding debt;

•income tax (benefit) expense, and because the payment of taxes is part of our operations, tax expense is a necessary element of our costs and ability to operate;

•non-cash equity compensation, which will remain a key element of our overall equity based compensation package; and

•the impact of earnings or charges resulting from matters we consider not to be indicative of our ongoing operations.

Refer to notes below for additional details concerning the respective items for Adjusted EBITDA.

Index to Financial Statements

The following table provides a reconciliation from net (loss) income to Adjusted EBITDA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and July 2, 2023:

Adjusted EBITDA represents Net (loss) income before Interest, Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, Impairment Charges, Share-based Compensation, EBITDA from Closed Locations, Foreign Currency Exchange Loss (Gain), Asset Disposition Loss (Gain), Transactional and other advisory costs, Changes in the value of earnouts and Other. Refer to notes below for additional details concerning the respective items for Adjusted EBITDA.

Notes to Adjusted EBITDA:

The closed location adjustment is to remove EBITDA for closed locations. Closed locations are those locations that are closed for a variety of reasons, including permanent closure, newly acquired or built locations prior to opening, locations closed for renovation or rebranding and conversion. If a location is not open on the last day of the reporting period, it will be considered closed for that reporting period. If the location is closed on the first day of the reporting period for permanent closure, the location will be considered closed for that reporting period.

The adjustment for transaction costs and other advisory costs is to remove charges incurred in connection with any transaction, including mergers, acquisitions, refinancing, amendment or modification to indebtedness, dispositions and costs in connection with an initial public offering, in each case, regardless of whether consummated. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.

The adjustment for changes in the value of earnouts is to remove the impact of the revaluation of the earnouts. Changes in the fair value of the earnout liability is recognized in the statement of operations. Decreases in the liability will have a favorable impact on the statement of operations and increases in the liability will have an unfavorable impact. 

Other includes the following related to transactions that do not represent ongoing or frequently recurring activities as part of the Company’s operations: (i) non-routine expenses, net of recoveries for matters outside the normal course of business, (ii) costs incurred that have been expensed associated with obtaining an equity method investment in a subsidiary of VICI, (iii) severance expense, and (iv) other individually de minimis expenses. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We manage our liquidity through assessing available cash-on-hand, our ability to generate cash and our ability to borrow or otherwise raise capital to fund operating, investing and financing activities. The Company remains in a positive financial position with available cash balances. 

A core tenet of our long-term strategy is to grow the size and scale of the Company in order to improve our operating profit margins through leveraging our fixed costs. As such, one of the Company’s known cash requirements is for capital expenditures related to the construction of new locations and upgrading and converting existing locations. We believe our financial position, generation of cash, available cash on hand, existing credit facility, and access to potentially obtain additional financing from sale-lease-back transactions or other sources will provide sufficient capital resources to fund our operational requirements, capital expenditures, and material short and long-term commitments for the foreseeable future. However, there are a number of factors that may hinder our ability to access these capital resources, including but not limited to our degree of leverage and potential borrowing restrictions imposed by our lenders. See “Risk Factors” for further information.

Index to Financial Statements

On February 8, 2023, we entered into an Eighth Amendment (the “Eighth Amendment”) to the First Lien Credit Agreement. The Eighth Amendment provided for a new $900,000 term loan maturing on February 8, 2028 (the “Amendment No. 8 Term Loan”). Proceeds of the Amendment No. 8 Term Loan were used to refinance the existing First Lien Credit Facility Term Loan, to repay all amounts outstanding on the Revolver, and for general corporate purposes. The Amendment No. 8 Term Loan bore interest at a rate per annum equal to the Adjusted Term Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) plus 3.50%. 

On June 13, 2023, the Company entered into a Ninth Amendment (the “Ninth Amendment”) to the First Lien Credit Agreement. The Ninth Amendment provided for an incremental term loan in the amount of $250,000 (the “Incremental Term Loan”) to the Amendment No. 8 Term Loan for an aggregate principal amount of $1,150,000. Proceeds of the Incremental Term Loan were used to repay all amounts outstanding on the Revolver and for general corporate purposes. In addition, the Ninth Amendment increased the Amendment No. 8 Term Loan quarterly principal payments beginning on September 29, 2023 from $2,250 to $2,875. 

Under the First Lien Credit Agreement, we have access to a senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Revolver”). The outstanding balance on the Revolver is due on December 15, 2026. Interest on borrowings under the Revolver is based on the Adjusted Term SOFR. 

In connection with the Company entering into the Eighth Amendment, the Revolver commitment was increased by $35,000 to an aggregate amount of $200,000, and the amount outstanding as of the Eighth Amendment date of $86,434 was repaid. 

In connection with the Company entering into the Ninth Amendment, the Revolver commitment was increased by $35,000 to an aggregate amount of $235,000, and the amount outstanding as of the Ninth Amendment date of $100,000 was repaid. 

On June 18, 2024, the Company entered into a Tenth Amendment to the First Lien Credit Agreement. In connection with the Company entering into the Tenth Amendment, the Revolver commitment was increased by $50,000 to an aggregate amount of $285,000.

As of June 30, 2024, no amounts are drawn on the Revolver.

On August 23, 2024, the Company entered into a Eleventh Amendment to the First Lien Credit Agreement. In connection with the Company entering into the Eleventh Amendment, the Revolver commitment was increased by $50,000 to an aggregate amount of $335,000.

For more information on our debt, see Note 9 - Debt of the notes to consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

At June 30, 2024, we had approximately $66,972 of available cash and cash equivalents.

Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 Compared To the Fiscal Year Ended July 2, 2023

The following compares the primary categories of the consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended June 30, 2024 and July 2, 2023:

The decrease in cash provided by operating activities primarily reflects higher cost of revenues and an increase in interest expense. 

Investing activities utilized $385,656, reflecting our acquisitions and capital expenditures, as well as location conversions and related capital expenditures. The higher level of cash used in investing activities during the period mainly reflects the acquisition of Lucky Strike, which had a larger purchase price as compared to the locations acquired during the 

Index to Financial Statements

same period of the prior fiscal year. We expect to continue to invest in accretive acquisitions in future periods as well as location upgrades and conversions.

Financing activities provided $102,157 in fiscal 2024, reflecting proceeds from our transaction with VICI of $408,510, partially offset by $254,309 for the repurchase of treasury stock through our share repurchase program and the payment of cash dividends.

Our contractual obligations primarily include, but are not limited to, debt service, self-insurance liabilities, and leasing arrangements. The consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K provide additional information on the timing and amounts of those contractual obligations. We believe our sources of liquidity, namely available cash on hand, positive operating cash flows, and access to capital markets will continue to be adequate to meet our contractual obligations, as well as fund working capital, planned capital expenditures, location acquisitions, and execute purchases under our share repurchase program.

Critical Accounting Estimates

Our results of operations and financial condition as reflected in the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates, judgements, and assumptions affecting the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base these estimates and judgments on historical experience and assumptions believed to be reasonable under current facts and circumstances. Actual results, however, may differ from the estimated amounts we have recorded. We regularly evaluate these estimates, judgements and assumptions.

The following discussion provides information on our critical accounting estimates that require management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, and which may result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

Long-lived assets other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets (such as Bowlero and Professional Bowlers Association trade names), including property and equipment, right-of-use assets and other definite-lived intangibles such as trade names and customer relationships are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. 

For long-lived assets, an impairment is indicated when the estimated total undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset or group of assets is less than carrying value. If impairment exists, an adjustment is made to write the asset down to its fair value, and a loss is recorded as the difference between the carrying value and fair value. The impairments primarily relate to long-lived assets for an open location and closed locations. We estimated the fair value of these assets utilizing the business enterprise valuation based on discounted cash flows for the open location, and for the closed locations, the market approach using orderly liquidation values or broker quotes for sale of similar properties. We then compared these fair values to the related carrying value of the long-lived assets.

Impairment of Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

Management assesses impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill, brokered liquor licenses on a quota system and our Bowlero and Professional Bowlers Association trade names, on an annual basis during the fourth quarter or more frequently under certain circumstances.

We assessed macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors that could have a negative impact, overall financial performance including actual results and trends, and other relevant entity-specific events. For fiscal 2024, the Company performed a qualitative assessment of goodwill and concluded it was not more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting units was less than its carrying values. During fiscal year 2024, the company reclassified the Bowlero trade name intangible asset from indefinite lived to finite lived due to the planned rebranding of bowling locations, which resulted in an impairment charge of $52,030. The Company estimated the fair value of the Bowlero trade name based on an income approach using the relief-from-royalty method. There were no other impairment charges for goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets, excluding liquor license revaluations, recorded in fiscal years 2024.

Index to Financial Statements

Valuation of Earnouts

The estimated fair value of the earnout liability is determined by using a Monte-Carlo simulation model. Inputs that have a significant effect on the valuation include the expected volatility, stock price, expected term, risk-free interest rate, dividend yield, and performance hurdles.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

See Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies of the notes to consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding new accounting pronouncements.

Emerging Growth Company Accounting Election

The Company is an emerging growth company, as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, as modified by the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012, and it may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in its periodic reports and proxy statements.

Section 102(b) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a registration statement under the Securities Act declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such an election to opt out is irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make comparison of our financial statements with those of another public company that is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company that has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accounting standards used.

We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of: the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of Isos’ IPO (March 5, 2026), (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1,235,000 or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common equity that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700,000 as of the end of the second fiscal quarter of that fiscal year; and the date on which we have issued more than $1,000,000 in non-convertible debt securities during the prior three-year period. References herein to “emerging growth company” have the meaning associated with it in the JOBS Act.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative