ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives, and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are “forward-looking statements.” These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words “believes,” “project,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “strategy,” “plan,” “may,” “will,” “would,” “will be,” “will continue,” “will likely result,” and similar expressions.

Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Our ability to predict results or the actual effect of future plans or strategies is inherently uncertain. Factors which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future prospects include but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, legislative/regulatory changes, availability of capital, interest rates, competition, and generally accepted accounting principles. These risks and uncertainties should also be considered in evaluating forward-looking statements and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements.

Overview

Better For You Wellness is a growing LGBTQ+-controlled and led, plant-based, science-focused wellness company with digitally native functional beverage and skincare products. We operate within the six dimensions of wellness, which include Better Appearance, Fitness, Health, Mindfulness, Nutrition, and Sleep. Our Stephen James Curated Coffee Collection (“

SJCCC

”) finds its place within at least three pillars (Better Health, Mindfulness, and Nutrition), providing incredible-tasting coffee for customers seeking an intentional life. Under Mango Moi and Better Suds, we provide skin and hair care products that find their place in Better Appearance, Health, Mindfulness, and Sleep. We operate through two channels: Wholesale and Direct-to-Consumer. We were founded in 2020 and incorporated in Nevada. Our principal office is in Columbus, Ohio.

Our SJCCC has become our North Star and will be our compass to generating greater revenue and long-term profitability. As the brand has what is the greatest ability for rapid acceptance, growth, and profitability, it has become our primary focus. It should be unsurprising given that coffee is one of the globe’s most popular beverages, with more than 400 billion cups consumed each year and more than 450 million cups of coffee consumed daily in the United States, according to the editors of Publications International, Ltd. We are making certain SJCCC is a premium beverage that fuels the mind, body, and soul. We specialize in curating small batches of single-origin 100% Arabica beans from diverse regions around the globe for our Classic Collection, which is for our well-traveled coffee connoisseurs who prioritize wellness and actively seek intentional and mindful moments to savor and enjoy. We celebrate artisanal coffee by connecting people to their passion for this versatile beverage and its origins to create a personalized experience around coffee as our contribution to our customers' conscious lifestyles.

Our discerning customers want a clean, quality bean with distinct flavors that tantalize their taste buds. They can purchase it online, at groceries, retailers, resorts, and hotels. We provide them with a full-bodied line of certified Fair-Trade, Kosher, Organic, 100% Arabica premium coffees. We aim to awaken the senses through aroma, flavor, and texture, incorporating our global experiences into every cup.

Our Classic Collection 

Our Classic Collection currently offers 16 SKUs of premium coffee from Brazil, Papua New Guinea, and Zambia, selected in small batches, which ensures delivery of fresh flavor, all-natural ingredients, and daily inspiration. What began as online sales have quickly gained traction via our website in 35 select Ohio Kroger stores, Amazon, a prestigious five-diamond resort/hotel, various retail boutiques, and Direct-to-Consumer (“DTC”). We have a growing wholesale channel serving boutiques, restaurants, and offices. Our Classic Collection is also sold in whole beans, ground coffee, individual pods compatible with Keurig machines, and ready-to-drink Nitro Cold Brew for customers.

Our Latin American Collection

Expanding our product range is another key aspect of our growth strategy. This summer, we aim to diversify our offerings by introducing the Latin American (“

LatAm

”) Collection. This exciting addition to our product line will include a variety of certified Fair-Trade, Kosher, Organic, 100% Arabica premium coffee blends, such as Light, Medium, Dark, Espresso, and Swiss Water Decaf. These options will be available in whole bean, ground, and K-Cup-style formats, catering to different brewing preferences.

Sourcing and Manufacturing

We insist on ethically sourced coffee, focusing on sustainable cultivation, manufacturing, and production whenever possible. 

To ensure 

product consistency, quality, and redundancy in our manufacturing, our coffee beans are roasted in Ohio and Massachusetts,

and we plan to roast and manufacture 

in Ohio and Colorado. 

Growth Capital

We follow a long-term strategic model that aligns with a proven strategy that other premium and private coffee brands follow. The model assumes we raise $4 million of growth capital to buy green coffee beans, packaging, and manufacturing at a commercial scale to lower the per-unit costs. Additionally, the capital will fund our operations, retire maturing debt, and implement a comprehensive multichannel marketing strategy. This strategy will allocate approximately 25% of our gross revenue to advertising and marketing efforts in the next few years. We plan to gradually reduce this allocation to 21% as we progress. Our marketing plan is designed to effectively promote our products, drive sales, and solidify our market share via an aggressive 360° marketing approach, including Social Media Marketing, Search Engine Optimization (“

SEO

”), Pay-Per-Click Advertising, Amazon Advertising, Optimization, Targeted Email Campaigns, Geofencing Marketing, Trade Shows, Event Marketing, Narrowcast video, and Satellite Radio. Our priority throughout our marketing efforts will be data-driven decision-making. By closely monitoring the performance of each marketing channel and analyzing return on investment (“

ROI

”) data, we can make informed adjustments to our spending and campaign strategies. We aim to drive sales and maximize our reach within our target wellness demographic through targeted and optimized marketing techniques.

Sales Organization and Team Structure

To expand sales in brick-and-mortar grocers and retailers, we have retained a seasoned national coffee sales director who brings vast contacts of grocery and retail beverage directors and brokers. They are paid on an hourly project-based consultancy basis to help us build a network of stores within six hours of Columbus, Ohio, to minimize transit costs. The Sales Director reports directly to the Chief Operating Officer (COO), and we plan to add one Sales/Customer Service Representative for the first two years of full funding. In the third year, after full funding, we plan to add three additional Sales/Customer Service Representatives and a Director of Amenities to work directly with the hospitality market (i.e., Resorts/Hotels, etc.). To expand online sales, we have developed relationships with a network of vendors, starting with a Growth Manager who will report directly to the COO and help coordinate and manage the following: Amazon Manager, Brand Creative, Trade Marketing, Public Relations, Sales Strategy, Sales Action Plan. These online sales consultants will be paid from the funds raised on a project-by-project basis. 

Performance and Result Measurement

We are in expansion discussions with numerous grocers, retailers, resorts, and hotels. We will measure performance results by the number of stores we sell and general revenue (projection to actual). Upon securing $4 million of growth capital within 12 months (by Q2 of FY 2025), we project the growth capital will allow us to grow sales in 251 stores with a projected $1 million within a twelve-month time frame (post growth capital funding). The following year, after full funding, we estimate sales in 770 stores and over $8 million in gross revenue to reach break-even/profitability within 20 months of full funding. We estimate sales in 1,770 stores, including Nespresso-style Pods, within year three to generate more than $24 million. By the fourth year, we project sales in over 2,700 stores, generating over $41 million in revenue. By the fifth year, we could achieve sales in 4,000 stores and anticipate sales above $62 million.

Utilizing our DTC via our user-friendly website, GetSJCoffee.com, we estimate a 20% discount in our financial modelling of DTC purchases, inviting customers to indulge in our top-notch products. Furthermore, we have developed an enhanced subscription model that gives our loyal subscribers an exclusive up to 35% discount on their orders. This way, our customers can enjoy their favourite coffee blends while saving significantly.

Forecast

Assumption:

Our financial projections assume we can raise $4 million in growth capital within 12 months. If we fail to do so, the forecasts will be subject to change.

Our competitive market analysis identified and intensely scrutinized ten synergistic publicly traded coffee companies. We examined each company's twelve trailing months (

“TTM”

) of Revenue and Market Capitalization as of June 21, 2024. The analysis revealed an average Price-to-Sales ratio of 2.87. For our projected price-to-sale (“

P/S

”), we applied a 20% reduction to establish a 2.29 P/S.

NOTE:

Many reviewed companies have negative price-to-earnings; conversely, after funding, we project to break even by the 20th month and remain profitable for the foreseeable future.

Competitive

Market

Analysis

Source:

Market

Data

collected

from

Fidelity,

WSJ.com,

StockAnalysis.com, and Yahoo Finance

as of the June 21,

2024, market close.

Our revenue projections and associated costs like cost of goods (“

COGs

”) and operational expenses are meticulously calculated by leveraging Kroger's

metrics

and

drawing

on

our

collective

experiences

with

manufacturing

and

distribution

partners.

The

annual

multiplication of revenue and price-to-sales ratios forms the basis for establishing a year-over-year projected market capitalization (i.e., revenue x P/S = market cap). Further, to estimate the Share Price, we divide the market cap by authorized shares, providing a projection for the share price (i.e., market cap / authorized shares = share price).

The graph below illustrates the results derived from this analysis. Please

note

that

we

have

truncated

the

P/S decimal value in the graph for clarity and illustration purposes. These findings collectively underscore the potential trajectory and growth of our stock.

BETTER

FOR

YOU

WELLNESS,

INC.

(OTCM:

BFYW)

Ratio

(P/S)

2.29

Estimated

P/S

applied

to

the

Term

of

the

Note

for

projection

purposes

only.

The projections above are based upon a comprehensive market analysis of ten prominent publicly traded coffee companies.

Source: 

Market Data collected from Fidelity, WSJ.com, StockAnalysis.com, and Yahoo Finance as of the June 21, 2024, market close.

*

NOTE:

We would expect to undertake a Forward Split to increase the common shares outstanding while decreasing the share price. We believe a Forward Split, as considered, would allow us to meet another up-listing requirement for a senior exchange.

Our Skincare/Personal Care Products

We repackaged and reformulated our Mango Moi skincare and personal care line to bring joy back to self-care and provide a clean skincare line that could be commercially scaled to control costs better. We have presented our customers with a relaunched website and will soon launch an Amazon presence for the brand. We plan to reinvest in online advertising to drive traffic to MangoMoi.com and the Mango Moi Amazon Store (when finalized). 

As sales grow, we plan to leverage our relationships with subscription box companies and pursue wholesale sales relationships to get Mango Moi into the hands of new customers. Additionally, we have a planned collaboration between Mango Moi and Better Suds, allowing clean body, face, hair, and hand wash to interact with skin and hair care products. 

New Collection

The future of Mango Moi includes an all-vegan collection that will provide customers with a personal care system that offers ingredients that work together to bring out your best skin. This new collection will offer five new SKUs with a planned 2025 or 2026 launch. To properly and fully launch this collection, we anticipate that we will need to raise additional capital for this growth.

We are excited to explore the endless possibilities of skincare. The beauty world is so competitive, and we are just getting started.

We also plan to develop a Luxe Men’s Skin Care brand and a Premium Luxe Skin Care Line. It would offer personal care products for men and women at various price points and be able to develop collaborations. The Luxe Men’s Skin Care Line and Premium Luxe Skin Care line are expected to launch by Fiscal Year 2027.

Our Ethos

Our dedication to success goes beyond business achievements. We are committed to making a positive social impact by supporting initiatives such as cancer research, suicide prevention, crisis intervention, and tackling food insecurity. These purpose-driven initiatives are seamlessly integrated into our core business strategies, reflecting our ethos of holistic well-being. 

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth selected items in our consolidated financial data in dollar amounts and as a percentage of revenue for the period represented:

Revenues

The Company generated $10,321 and $11,414 in revenues for our fiscal years ending February 28, 2024, and 2023, respectively. The revenue decrease is due to the decrease in sales of its wholly-owned subsidiary Mango Moi, in the current year which was offset by increase in sales of its new product line of beverages.

Cost of Goods Sold

We recorded $5,352 and $18,409 in cost of goods sold for our fiscal years ending February 28, 2024, and 2023, respectively. The decrease in the cost of goods sold in the current year was related to Mango Moi hair and skin care products inventory which were written off in the prior year due to obsolete inventory.

Gross Profit 

We recorded $4,969 and $6,995 in gross profit and gross loss for our fiscal years ending February 28, 2024, and 2023, respectively. The increase in gross profit in current year is due to write-off of inventory in the prior year that produced a negative margin, which leads to decrease in cost of goods sold in current year, which was the main reason which results in profit in current year. 

Operating Expenses

We recorded $2,242,403 and $3,336,041 in operating expenses for our fiscal years ending February 28, 2024, and 2023, respectively. We incurred substantially lower operating expenses for our fiscal year ending February 28, 2024, compared to the prior fiscal year due to a decrease in stock-based compensation in the current year.

Net Loss 

We recorded a net loss of $2,453,934 and $3,527,425 for our fiscal years ending February 28, 2024, and 2023, respectively. We recorded a substantially lower net loss for our fiscal year ending February 28, 2024, compared to the prior fiscal year due to the decrease in operating expenses.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

At February 28, 2024, we had cash of $1,716 and a working capital deficit of $2,065,072. The increase in the working capital deficit during the year ended February 28, 2024 was due to the increase in accrued interest and debt. 

We had a total stockholders’ deficit of $1,994,047 and an accumulated deficit of $8,529,535 as of February 28, 2024 compared with a total stockholders’ deficit of $1,101,847 and an accumulated deficit of $6,075,601 as of February 28, 2023. This difference is primarily due to the net loss incurred during the year.

For the year ended February 28, 2024, we recorded a net loss of $2,453,934 and net cash used in operating activities of $423,344. The $2,030,590 reduction in net loss to net cash used in operating activities was primarily the result of non-cash compensation expense, goodwill impairment and increases in operating liabilities.

For the year ended February 28, 2023, we recorded a net loss of $3,527,425 and net cash used in operating activities of $817,755. The $2,709,670 reduction in net loss to net cash used in operating activities was primarily the result of non-cash compensation expense and increase/ decrease in operating liability.

For the year ended February 28, 2024, we had no activities in investing activities.

For the year ended February 28, 2023, we had net cash used in investing activities of $8,410. We used cash for the purchase of fixed assets and acquisition of business net of cash of $2,323 and $6,087, respectively.

For the year ended February 28, 2024, we had net cash provided by financial activities of $416,287. We had a cash proceeds of $468,787 from loans which were offset by the repayment of notes payable of $52,500.

For the year ended February 28, 2023, we had net cash provided by financial activities of $830,296, of which $833,500 was due to advances from notes payable.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”). Pursuant to Note 2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.

The Company has applied ASC 606 - Revenue from contracts with Customers: identify the contract with a customer; identify the performance obligations in the contract; determine the transaction price; allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract; and recognize revenue when each performance obligation is satisfied.

Revenue for products is recognized when the products are delivered to the customer, and the customer completes the product inspection. Cash receipts for undelivered products are recorded as deferred revenues. As of February 28, 2024 and February 28, 2023, the Company had no deferred revenues.

Off –Balance Sheet Arrangements 

As of February 28, 2024, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under applicable SEC rule.

Financial Statements and Exhibits

The Company is an “emerging growth company” (“EGC”), that is exempt from certain financial disclosure and governance requirements for up to five years as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the JOBS Act), that eases restrictions on the sale of securities; and increases the number of shareholders a company must have before becoming subject to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commissions (SEC’s) reporting and disclosure rules (See Emerging Growth Companies Section Below).

The Company has elected February 28th as its year-end.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE