\. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The objective of this Management’s Discussion and Analysis is to allow investors to view the Company from management’s perspective, considering items that would have a material impact on future operations. The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition of The Glimpse Group, Inc. and its underlying entities (collectively referred to as “Glimpse” or the “Company”) as of and for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Report, as well as the other financial information we file with the SEC from time to time. References in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to “us,” “we”, “our” and similar terms refer to the Company. This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in “Risk Factors” elsewhere in this Report, and other factors that we may not know. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information.”

Company Overview

The Glimpse Group, Inc. (“Glimpse”, the “Company”) is an Immersive technology company, providing enterprise focused Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR) and Spatial Computing software and services. Glimpse’s operating entities are located primarily in the United States, with a development and modeling center in Turkey. We believe that we offer significant exposure to the rapidly growing and potentially transformative Immersive technology markets, while mitigating downside risk via our diversified model and ecosystem.

Our ecosystem of Immersive technology entities, collaborative environment and diversified business model aims to simplify the challenges faced by companies in the emerging Immersive technology industry, create scale, build operational efficiencies, reduce time to market and enhance go-to-market synergies, while simultaneously providing investors an opportunity to invest directly via a diversified infrastructure.

The Immersive technology industry is an early-stage technology industry with nascent markets. We believe that this industry has significant growth potential across verticals, may be transformative, and that our diversified ecosystem creates important competitive advantages. We currently target a wide array of industry verticals, including but not limited to: Corporate Training, Education, Healthcare, Government & Defense, Branding/Marketing/Advertising, Retail, Financial Services, Food & Hospitality, Media & Entertainment, Architecture/Engineering/Construction, Corporate Events and Presentations and Social VR support groups and therapy. We focus primarily on the business-to-business (“B2B”) and business-to-business-to-consumer (“B2B2C”) segments industry and we are hardware agnostic.

In fiscal year 2024, we shifted our businesses focus (“Strategic Shift”) to providing immersive technology solutions software and services that are primarily driven by Spatial Computing, Cloud and Artificial Intelligence (“AI”), which we refer to as “Spatial Core”. While this transition is still ongoing, we believe that Spatial Core is a key differentiator, growth driver and competitive advantage for us.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Basis of presentation

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). While our significant accounting policies are more fully described in our financial statements, we believe the following accounting policies are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating this management discussion and analysis.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the balances of Glimpse and its wholly owned entities. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Use of Accounting Estimates

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the accompanying consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

The principal estimates relate to the valuation of allowance for doubtful accounts, stock options, warrants, revenue recognition, allocation of the purchase price of assets relating to business combinations, calculation of contingent consideration for acquisitions and fair value of intangible assets and impairment of non-current assets.

Business Combinations

The results of a business acquired in a business combination are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements from the date of the acquisition. Purchase accounting results in assets and liabilities of an acquired business generally being recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Any excess consideration over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred.

The Company performs valuations of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and allocates the purchase price to its respective assets and liabilities. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed may require management to use significant judgment and estimates, including the selection of valuation methodologies, estimates of future revenues, costs and cash flows. Estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. During the measurement period, which is typically one year from the acquisition date, if new information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, changes in the estimated values of the net assets recorded may change the amount of the purchase price allocated to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded in the consolidated statement of operations. At times, the Company engages the assistance of valuation specialists in determining fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination.

Intangible assets (other than Goodwill)

Intangible assets represent the allocation of a portion of an acquisition’s purchase price. They include acquired customer relationships and developed technology purchased. Intangible assets are stated at allocated cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. The Company reviews intangibles, being amortized, for impairment when current events indicate that the fair value may be less than the carrying value.

Goodwill 

Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in business combinations accounted for under the acquisition method. Goodwill is not amortized but instead is tested at least annually for impairment, or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 

The Company reviews long-lived assets to be held and used, other than goodwill, for impairment at least annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If an evaluation of recoverability is required, the estimated undiscounted future cash flows directly associated with the asset are compared with the asset’s carrying amount. If the estimated future cash flows from the use of the asset are less than the carrying value, an impairment charge would be recorded to write down the asset to its estimated fair value.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Valuation techniques used to measure fair value must maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The fair value hierarchy, which is based on three levels of inputs, the first two of which are considered observable and the last unobservable, that may be used to measure fair value, is as follows:

The Company classifies its cash equivalents and investments within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy on the basis of valuations based on quoted prices for the specific securities in an active market.

The Company’s contingent consideration is categorized as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. Contingent consideration is recorded within contingent consideration, current, and contingent consideration, non-current, in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2024 and 2023. Contingent consideration has been recorded at its fair values using unobservable inputs and have included using the Monte Carlo simulation option pricing framework, incorporating contractual terms and assumptions regarding financial forecasts, discount rates, and volatility of forecasted revenue. The development and determination of the unobservable inputs for Level 3 fair value measurements and fair value calculations are the responsibility of the Company’s management with the assistance of a third-party valuation specialist.

The Company’s other financial instruments consist primarily of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities, and approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.

Revenue Recognition

Nature of Revenues

The Company reports its revenues in two categories:

| ● | Software Services: Virtual, Augmented Reality and Spatial Computing projects, solutions and consulting services. 
---|---|--- 
| | 
| ● | Software License and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”): Virtual Reality or Augmented Reality or Spatial Computing software that is sold either as a license or as a SaaS subscription. 

The Company applies the following steps in order to determine the appropriate amount of revenue to be recognized as it fulfills its obligations under each of its agreements:

| ● | identify the contract with a customer; 
---|---|--- 
| | 
| ● | identify the performance obligations in the contract; 
| | 
| ● | determine the transaction price; 
| | 
| ● | allocate the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract; 
| | 
| ● | recognize revenue as the performance obligation is satisfied; 
| | 
| ● | determine that collection is reasonably assured. 

Revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies its performance obligation under the contract by transferring the promised product to its customer or service is performed and collection is reasonably assured. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct product or service to a customer. A portion of the Company’s contracts have a single performance obligation, as the promise to transfer products or services is not separately identifiable from other promises in the contract and, therefore, not distinct. Other contracts can include various services and products which are at times capable of being distinct, and therefore may be accounted for as separate performance obligations.

Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for transferring products or providing services. As such, revenue is recorded net of returns, allowances, customer discounts, and incentives. Sales taxes and other taxes are excluded from revenues.

For distinct performance obligations recognized at a point in time, any unrecognized portion of revenue and any corresponding unrecognized expenses are presented as deferred revenue/contract liability and deferred costs/contract asset, respectively, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Contract assets include cash and equity based payroll costs, and may include payments to consultants and vendors.

For distinct performance obligations recognized over time, the Company records a contract asset (costs in excess of billings) when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing, or a contract liability (billings in excess of costs) when revenue is recognized subsequent to invoicing.

Significant Judgments

The Company’s contracts with customers may include promises to transfer multiple products/services. Determining whether products/services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. Further, judgment may be required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation.

Disaggregation of Revenue

The Company generated revenue for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 by delivering: (i) Software Services, consisting primarily of VR/AR/Spatial Computing software projects, solutions and consulting services, and (ii) Software Licenses & SaaS, consisting primarily of VR, AR and Spatial Computing software licenses or SaaS. The Company currently generates its revenues primarily from customers in the United States.

Revenue for a significant portion of Software Services projects and solutions (projects whereby, the development of the project leads to an identifiable asset with an alternative use to the Company) is recognized at the point of time in which the customer obtains control of the project, customer accepts delivery and confirms completion of the project. Certain other Software Services revenues are custom project solutions (projects whereby, the development of the custom project leads to an identifiable asset with no alternative use to the Company, and, in which, the Company also has an enforceable right to payment under the contract) and are therefore recognized based on the percentage of completion using an input model with a master budget. The budget is reviewed periodically and percentage of completion adjusted accordingly.

Revenue for Software Services consulting services and website maintenance is recognized when the Company performs the services, typically on a monthly retainer basis.

Revenue for Software License is recognized at the point of time in which the Company delivers the software and customer accepts delivery. Software License often include third party components that are a fully integrated part of the Software License stack and are therefore considered as one deliverable and performance obligation. If there are significant contractually stated ongoing service obligations to be performed during the term of the Software License or SaaS contract, then revenues are recognized ratably over the term of the contract.

Employee Stock-Based Compensation

The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense related to grants to employees or service providers based on grant date fair values of common stock or the stock options, which are amortized over the requisite period, as well as forfeitures as they occur.

The Company values the options using the Black-Scholes Merton (“Black Scholes”) method utilizing various inputs such as expected term, expected volatility and the risk-free rate. The expected term reflects the application of the simplified method, which is the weighted average of the contractual term of the grant and the vesting period for each tranche. Expected volatility is based upon historical volatility for a rolling previous year’s trading days of the Company’s common stock. The risk-free rate is based on the implied yield of U.S. Treasury notes as of the grant date with a remaining term approximately equal to the expected life of the award.

Research and Development Costs

Research and development expenses are expensed as incurred, and include payroll, employee benefits and stock-based compensation expense. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs. Given the emerging industry and uncertain market environment the Company operates in, research and development costs are not capitalized.

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

Financial Instruments - Credit Losses

In September 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326) which requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held. The Company adopted this guidance on July 1, 2023 and the impact of the adoption was not material to our consolidated financial statements as credit losses are not expected to be significant based on historical collection trends, the financial condition of payment partners, and external market factors.

Income Taxes

In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-12 to simplify the accounting in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 740, Income Taxes. This standard removes certain exceptions related to the approach for intra-period tax allocation, the methodology for calculating income taxes in an interim period, and the recognition of deferred tax liabilities for outside basis differences. This guidance also clarifies and simplifies other areas of ASC 740. The Company adopted this guidance on July 1, 2023 using the prospective transition method. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures, which includes amendments that further enhance income tax disclosures, primarily through standardization and disaggregation of rate reconciliation categories and income taxes paid by jurisdiction. The amendments are effective for the Company’s annual periods beginning July 1, 2025. The Company is currently evaluating the ASU to determine its impact on the Company’s disclosures.

Highlights 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 2024 AND 2023

Summary P&L

Revenue

Total revenue for the year ended June 30, 2024 was approximately $8.80 million compared to approximately $13.48 million for the year ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of approximately 35%. The decrease reflects our Strategic Shift, which has resulted in a significant turnover in our historical customer base and the divestiture of, and consolidation of, multiple of our entities.

We break out our revenues into two main categories - Software Services and Software License.

| ● | Software Services revenues are primarily comprised of Immersive technology projects, services related to our software licenses and consulting retainers. 
---|---|--- 
| | 
| ● | Software License revenues are comprised of the sale of our internally developed Immersive technology software as licenses or as software-as-a-service (“SaaS”). 

For the year ended June 30, 2024, Software Services revenue was approximately $8.13 million compared to approximately $12.59 million for the year ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of approximately 35%. The decrease is driven by the items described above.

For the year ended June 30, 2024, Software License revenue was approximately $0.67 million compared to approximately $0.89 million for the year ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of approximately 25% driven by the divestiture of PulpoAR.

Gross Profit

Gross profit was approximately 67% for the year ended June 30, 2024 compared to approximately 68% for the year ended June 30, 2023, essentially flat reflecting a consistent year over year mix in product revenue and gross profit margin.

For the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, internal staffing was approximately $1.90 million (65% of total cost of goods sold) and approximately $2.52 million (59% of total cost of goods sold), respectively. The increase in internal staffing as a percentage of total cost of goods sold reflects the intentional reduced reliance on subcontractors.

Operating Expenses

Operating expenses for the year ended June 30, 2024 were approximately $12.47 million compared to $38.02 million for the year ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of approximately 67%. The decrease reflects a decrease in goodwill impairment, reductions in headcount across expense categories driven by reduced revenue and an increase in the gain on change in fair value on acquisition contingent consideration.

Research and Development

Research and development expenses (primarily representing headcount related costs) for the year ended June 30, 2024 were approximately $5.45 million compared to $8.79 million for the year ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of approximately 38%. The decrease reflects reduced headcount throughout the Company, driven by reduced revenue.

General and Administrative

General and administrative expenses (primarily representing headcount and administrative related costs) for the year ended June 30, 2024 were approximately $4.29 million compared to $5.04 million for the year ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of approximately 15%. The decrease was driven by merger and acquisition fees related to the BLI acquisition in 2023 and a reduction in headcount year over year.

Sales and Marketing

Sales and marketing expenses (primarily representing headcount, including incentive based, related costs) for the year ended June 30, 2024 were approximately $2.82 million compared to $7.49 million for the year ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of approximately 62%. The decrease reflects reduced headcount throughout the Company, driven by reduced revenue. In addition, there was a reduction in revenue based incentive expense, and furthermore, a gain (i.e., expense reduction) in stock based incentive expense due to a decrease in the fair value of the Company’s common stock between measurement periods prior to payment.

Amortization of Acquisition Intangible Assets

Amortization of acquisition intangible assets expense for the year ended June 30, 2024 was approximately $1.24 million compared to $2.05 million for the year ended June 30, 2023, a decrease of approximately 40%. The decrease is due to the write off intangible assets related to S5D in 2023 and those related to PulpoAR in the first quarter of fiscal 2024.

Goodwill Impairment

Goodwill impairment for the year ended June 30, 2024 was approximately $0.38 million compared to approximately $12.85 million in the previous year. The 2023 impairment primarily represents the write off of goodwill from the acquisition of S5D due to deteriorating revenue and operating results and forecasts. The 2024 impairment represents the write off of goodwill from the divestiture of PulpoAR, also driven by poor revenue and operating results and forecasts.

Intangible Asset Impairment

Intangible asset impairment for the year ended June 30, 2024 was approximately $2.56 million compared to approximately $2.50 million in the previous year. The 2024 impairment primarily represents the write off of BLI – customer relationships unamortized balance at June 30, 2024. This is driven by the Strategic Shift, which has resulted in a significant turnover in BLI’s customer base that existed at the acquisition date. The 2024 impairment also includes the impairment of PulpoAR – technology unamortized balance due to PulpoAR’s divestiture. The 2023 impairment primarily represents the write off of S5D – customer relationships unamortized balance at June 30, 2023, due to deteriorating revenue and forecasts. The 2023 impairment also includes the impairment of AUGGD – customer relationships and technology unamortized balances due to AUGGD’s divestiture.

Change in Fair Value of Acquisition Contingent Consideration

Change in fair value of acquisition contingent consideration for the year ended June 30, 2024 was a gain of approximately $4.27 million compared to a gain of approximately $0.70 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increased gain reflects a reduction in potential consideration to be paid based on reduced revenue projections and a reduction in contingent consideration that was paid in common stock due to a decrease in common stock price during the period.

Other Income 

Other income for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 was approximately $0.22 million and $0.24, respectively. This represents interest income on money market fund balances.

Net loss

For the year ended June 30, 2024, we incurred a net loss of approximately $6.39 million compared to a net loss of approximately $28.57 million for the year ended June 30, 2023, an improvement of approximately 78% year-over-year. This reflects reduced revenue and associated gross profit more than offset by reductions in goodwill impairment charges, increased gain on change in fair value of acquisition contingent consideration and reductions in operating expenses primarily due to a decrease in headcount driven by reduced revenue.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

The following discussion and analysis includes both financial measures in accordance with GAAP, as well as non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company’s performance, financial position or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally included or excluded in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed as supplemental to, and should not be considered as alternatives to, net income (loss), operating income (loss), and cash flow from operating activities, liquidity or any other financial measures. They may not be indicative of the historical operating results of the Company nor are they intended to be predictive of potential future results. Investors should not consider non-GAAP financial measures in isolation or as substitutes for performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Our management uses and relies on EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, which are non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that both management and stockholders benefit from referring to the following non-GAAP financial measures in planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods.

Our management uses these non-GAAP financial measures in evaluating its financial and operational decision making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. Our management recognizes that the non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations because of the described excluded items.

The Company defines Adjusted EBITDA as earnings (or loss) from continuing operations before the items in the table below. Adjusted EBITDA is an important measure of our operating performance because it allows management, investors and analysts to evaluate and assess our core operating results from period to period after removing the impact of items of a non-operational nature that affect comparability.

We have included a reconciliation of our financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP to the most comparable non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that providing the non-GAAP financial measures, together with the reconciliation to GAAP, helps investors make comparisons between the Company and other companies. In making any comparisons to other companies, investors need to be aware that companies use different non-GAAP measures to evaluate their financial performance. Investors should pay close attention to the specific definition being used and to the reconciliation between such measures and the corresponding GAAP measures provided by each company under applicable SEC rules.

The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA loss for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023:

Adjusted EBITDA loss for the year ended June 30, 2024 was $4.63 million compared to $6.46 million for the comparable 2023 period. The improvement in EBITDA loss was driven by reductions in cash operating expenses exceeding reduced revenue/gross profit.

Going Concern

The Company evaluated whether there are conditions and events, considered in the aggregate, that raise doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that these consolidated financial statements are issued. This evaluation initially does not take into consideration the potential mitigating effect of management’s plans that have not been fully implemented as of the date the financial statements are issued.

The Company has incurred recurring losses since its inception, including a net loss of $6.39 million for the year ended June 30, 2024. In addition, as of June 30, 2024, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $63.0 million. While the Company’s cash flow has improved in recent months, we may continue to generate negative cash flow for the foreseeable future. While the Company intends to generate positive cash flow in the coming 12 months, its cash and cash equivalents as of June 30, 2024 may not be sufficient to fund operations for at least the next twelve months from the date of issuance of these consolidated financial statements. We will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve and sustain profitability, and we cannot assure that we will be able to do so. Accordingly, the Company has concluded that doubt exists about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least 12 months from the date of issuance of these consolidated financial statements.

Outside of potential revenue growth generated by the Company, in order to restore the going concern the Company may take actions which could include but are not limited to, further cost reductions, equity or debt financings and restructuring of potential future cash contingent acquisition liabilities. There is no assurance that these actions will be taken or be successful if pursued.

The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might result from the outcome of the uncertainties described.

Potential liquidity resources

Potential liquidity resources may include the sale of common stock pursuant to an existing effective registration statement on Form S-3. Such financing may not be available on terms favorable to the Company, or at all.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Operating activities

Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended June 30, 2024 was approximately $5.21 million, compared to approximately $9.16 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. This is driven by the decrease in revenue and related gross profit more than offset by reductions in cash operating expenses.

Investing activities

Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended June 30, 2024 was approximately $1.53 million compared to approximately $3.53 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. 2024 primarily represented a contingent consideration payment for the BLI acquisition based on achieved revenue milestone. 2023 represented the initial BLI acquisition payment at closing and a contingent acquisition consideration payment to S5D.

Financing activities

Cash flow provided from financing activities during the year ended June 30, 2024 was approximately $2.97 million, compared to $0.06 million for the prior period. 2024 represents the net proceeds of the common stock purchase agreement in October 2023.

Capital Resources

As of June 30, 2024, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $1.85 million, plus $0.72 million of accounts receivable.

As of June 30, 2024, the Company had no outstanding debt obligations.

As of June 30, 2024, the Company had no issued and outstanding preferred stock.

As of June 30, 2024, contingent consideration for acquisition liabilities contains cash components ranging up to $3.0 million, potentially payable through October 2025 contingent on BLI achieving certain revenue milestones.

Emerging Growth Company and Smaller Reporting Company Status

We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act. As such, we are eligible to take, have taken, and intend to take, advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, including the exemption from the auditor attestation requirements with respect to internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.

In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to take advantage of the benefits of this extended transition period. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of issuers who are required to comply with the effective dates for new or revised accounting standards that are applicable to public companies, which may make our common stock less attractive to investors.

We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year during which we have total annual gross revenues of at least $1.235 billion, (ii) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, (iii) the date on which we have, during the preceding three year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt, or (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer” under the Exchange Act, which could occur if the market value of our common shares that are held by non-affiliates is $700 million or more as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter.

We are also a “smaller reporting company” as defined in the Exchange Act. We may continue to be a smaller reporting company even after we are no longer an emerging growth company. We may take advantage of certain of the scaled disclosures available to smaller reporting companies until the fiscal year following the determination that our voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates is $250 million or more measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter, or our annual revenues are less than $100 million during the most recently completed fiscal year and our voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates is $700 million or more measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter.

We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If, as a result of our decision to reduce future disclosure, investors find our common stock less attractive, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and the price of our common stock may be more volatile.