Item 6. [Reserved] 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Report including, without limitation, statements under this item regarding our financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. When used in this Report, words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend” and similar expressions, as they relate to us or our management, identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of our management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, our management. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors detailed in our filings with the SEC. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are qualified in their entirety by this paragraph.

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Report.

Overview

We are a blank-check company incorporated as a Delaware corporation on April 13, 2021, for the purposes of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. We may pursue an initial business combination target in any business or industry.

Recent Developments

On February 13, 2024, we held the 2024 Special Meeting, at which our stockholders approved the (i) Second Extension and (ii) Trust Agreement Amendment. In connection with the vote to approve the Second Extension, Public Stockholders holding 90,054 Public Shares exercised their right to redeem such shares for a pro rata portion of the funds in the Trust Account. As a result, approximately $1.02 million (approximately $11.32 per Public Share) was removed from the Trust Account to pay such holders, leaving $715,760.63 in the Trust Account.

In connection with the Second Extension, we issued the Second Extension Promissory Note in the aggregate principal amount of up to $42,498 to SVES LLC, pursuant to which SVES LLC agreed to loan us up to $42,498. Under the terms of the Second Extension Promissory Note, SVES LLC (or its affiliates or permitted designees) shall deposit $3,541.50 per month (approximately $0.056 per Public Share that was not redeemed in connection with the vote to approve the Second Extension) into the Trust Account for each calendar month (commencing on February 15, 2024 and ending on the 15th day of each subsequent month) until February 15, 2025, or portion thereof, that is needed to complete a Business Combination, for up to an aggregate of $42,498. The Second Extension Promissory Note bears no interest and is repayable in full upon the date of the consummation of the SVES Business Combination. On May 15, 2024, the SVES Business Combination was mutually terminated and as part of that termination the Second Extension Promissory Note to SVES LLC was completely extinguished.

Following the approval by our stockholders of the Trust Agreement Amendment at the 2024 Special Meeting, on February 13, 2024, we instructed Continental to liquidate the investments held in the Trust Account and instead to hold the funds in the Trust Account in an interest-bearing demand deposit account at Morgan Stanley, with Continental continuing to act as trustee, until the earlier of the consummation of our initial Business Combination or our liquidation. As a result, following the liquidation of investments in the Trust Account, the remaining proceeds from the Initial Public Offering and Private Placement are no longer invested in U.S. government securities or money market funds.

We confidentially submitted a draft of the SVES Registration Statement to the SEC on February 14, 2024. As the SVES Business Combination was terminated the SVES Registration Statement will be withdrawn.


SVES Business Combination

On February 13, 2023, we entered into the SVES Business Combination Agreement by and among the SVES Business Combination Parties, which has been amended by the (i) SVES Business Combination Agreement Amendment, (ii) SVES Business Combination Agreement Second Amendment, (iii) SVES Business Combination Agreement Third Amendment and (iv) SVES Business Combination Agreement Fourth Agreement. Pursuant to the SVES Business Combination Agreement, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, (a) the Merger Sub will merge with and into our Company, with our Company surviving such merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pubco, and (b) each Seller will contribute all of its ownership interests in each SVES entity to Pubco in exchange for aggregate consideration in the amount of $632,000,000 to be paid in the common stock of Pubco valued at $10.00 per share of common stock. At the Closing, each of our Public Warrants shall be converted into one Pubco public warrant and each of our Private Placement Warrants shall be converted into one Pubco private warrant, in each case with such Pubco warrant having substantially the same terms and conditions as set forth in the respective Warrants, except that in each case they shall represent the right to acquire shares of Pubco common stock in lieu of shares of our Class A Common Stock.

On March 20, 2023, the parties entered into the First Amendment to the Business Combination Agreement to extend the date to conduct additional due diligence on the Target Companies from 5:00 p.m. on March 15, 2023 to 5:00 p.m. on April 7, 2023.

On April 19, 2023, the parties entered into the Second Amendment to the Business Combination Agreement to extend the date to conduct additional due diligence on the Target Companies from 5:00 p.m. on April 7, 2023 to 5:00 p.m. on May 1, 2023.

On August 11, 2023, the parties entered into the Third Amendment to the Business Combination Agreement, pursuant to which the parties amended the Business Combination Agreement in order to, among other things, (i) extend the Due Diligence Period and the date of the required delivery of disclosure schedules to August 31, 2023, (ii) provide for the Redemption Limitation Amendment Proposal in this proxy statement/prospectus to approve an amendment to Relativity’s Current Charter to eliminate the requirement that Relativity retain at least $5,000,001 of net tangible assets following the redemption of Public Shares in connection with the Business Combination, and to further amend the closing condition in the Business Combination such that Relativity would not be required to retain at least $5,000,001 of net tangible assets following the redemption of Public Shares in the event the Redemption Limitation Amendment Proposal is approved, and (iii) extend the Outside Date to February 15, 2024.

On February 14, 2024, the parties entered into the Fourth Amendment to the Business Combination Agreement (the “Fourth BCA Amendment”) pursuant to which the parties amended the Business Combination Agreement in order to extend the date by which any of the conditions to the Closing set forth in the Business Combination Agreement must be satisfactorily performed or waived to November 14, 2024.

On May 15, 2024, the SVES Business Combination was mutually terminated by the Parties as per the termination clause in the SVES Business Combination Agreement.

Founder Share Conversion

On February 27, 2023, we issued an aggregate of 3,593,749 shares of Class A Common Stock to our Sponsor, A.G.P., George Syllantavos and Anastasios Chrysostomidis, the holders of the Founder Shares, upon the conversion of an equal number of shares of Class B Common Stock in the Founder Share Conversion. These shares of Class A Common Stock are subject to the same restrictions as applied to the Class B Common Stock before the Founder Share Conversion, including, among other things, certain transfer restrictions, waiver of redemption rights and the obligation to vote in favor of an initial Business Combination as described in the IPO Registration Statement. Following the Founder Share Conversion, our Sponsor was the beneficial owner of 3,033,905 shares of Class A Common Stock and one share of Class B Common Stock. The Sponsor then transferred 533,525 shares of Class A Common Stock to certain members of the Sponsor.

Subsequent to those transfers and the Founder Sharer Conversion, the Sponsor currently holds 2,500,380 shares of Class A Common Stock and one share of Class B Common Stock, as well as 653,750 shares of Class A Common Stock that are part of Private Placement Units that were acquired by the Sponsor in the Private Placement.

Results of Operations

As of December 31, 2023, we had not commenced any operations. All activity for the period from April 13, 2021 (inception) through December 31, 2023, relates to our formation and initial public offering and identifying a target company for a business combination. We will not generate any operating revenues until after the completion of a business combination, at the earliest. We generated non-operating income in the form of interest income from the proceeds derived from the initial public offering and placed in the trust account.


For the year ended December 31, 2023, we had net loss of $2,305,489, which consists of a change in the fair value of warrant liability of $72,885, provision for income taxes of $13,333 and general and administrative costs of $2,300,807, offset by income from investments held in the trust account of $81,536.

For the year ended December 31, 2022, we had net income of $4,752,895, which consists of interest income from investments held in trust account of $2,049,399 and change in fair value of warrant liability of $4,356,766, offset by general and administrative costs of $1,104,757, warrant issuance costs of $125,175 and provision for income taxes of $423,338.

Factors That May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations

Our results of operations and our ability to complete an initial Business Combination may be adversely affected by various factors that could cause economic uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets, many of which are beyond our control. Our business could be impacted by, among other things, downturns in the financial markets or in economic conditions, increases in oil prices, inflation, increases in interest rates, supply chain disruptions, declines in consumer confidence and spending, including resurgences and the emergence of new virus variants, and geopolitical instability, such as the military conflict in Ukraine and the Middle East. We cannot at this time fully predict the likelihood of one or more of the above events, their duration or magnitude or the extent to which they may negatively impact our business and our ability to complete an initial Business Combination.

Liquidity, Capital Resources and Going Concern

As of December 31, 2023, the Company had $7,131 in its operating bank account and a working capital deficit of $1,613,412.

On February 15, 2022, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 14,375,000 Units, including 1,875,000 Units pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option in full, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $143,750,000.

Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 653,750 Private Placement Units in the Private Placement to our Sponsor at a price of $10.00 per Private Placement Unit, generating total gross proceeds of $6,537,500.

Transaction costs amounted to $3,890,326, consisting of $1,437,500 of underwriting commissions, $1,972,398 of the excess of the fair value of Class B Common Stock issued to the Initial Public Offering underwriter over the share subscription receivable and $480,428 of other offering costs.

Following the closing of our Initial Public Offering, $146,625,000.00 from the net proceeds of the sale of the Units in our Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Units in the Private Placement was placed in the Trust Account maintained by Continental, as trustee. In connection with our 2022 Special Meeting held on December 21, 2022, stockholders holding 14,221,705 Public Shares exercised their right to redeem such shares for a pro rata portion of the funds in our Trust Account. As a result, approximately $146 million (approximately $10.29 per Public Share) was removed from the Trust Account to pay such holders. As of December 31, 2022, approximately $1,671,810 remained in the Trust Account. On February 13, 2024, the Company announced that it had extended the date by which it has to consummate a Business Combination from February 15, 2024 to February 15, 2025 (the “Combination Period”). In connection with the extension on February 13, 2024, stockholders holding 90,054 Public Shares exercised their right to redeem such shares for a pro rata portion of the funds in the Company’s Trust Account. As a result, approximately $1.02 million (approximately $11.32 per Public Share) was removed from the Trust Account to pay such holders and approximately $720,000 will remain in the Trust Account. Following the redemptions, the Company had 63,241 Public Shares outstanding. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, approximately $1,746,543 and $1,671,810 remained in the trust account.

In connection with the redemptions of Public Shares, a total of approximately $25,000 was deducted from our Trust Account in order to pay taxes prior to the 2024 Special Meeting.

We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account, to complete our initial Business Combination. We may withdraw interest to pay our taxes and liquidation expenses if we are unsuccessful in completing a Business Combination. We may pay our franchise taxes from funds from the Initial Public Offering held outside of the Trust Account or from interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and released to us for this purpose. Our annual income tax obligations will depend on the amount of interest and other income earned on the amounts held in the Trust Account reduced by our operating expense and franchise taxes. We expect the interest earned on the amount in the Trust Account will be sufficient to pay our income taxes. To the extent that our equity or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our initial Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies.


Further, our Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required for Working Capital Loans. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay the Working Capital Loans out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to us. Otherwise, the Working Capital Loans would be repaid only out of funds held outside the Trust Account. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay the Working Capital Loans, but no proceeds from the Trust Account would be used to repay the Working Capital Loans. Up to $1,500,000 of such Working Capital Loans may be convertible into Units at a price of $10.00 per unit at the option of the lender. The units would be identical to the Private Placement Units. At December 31, 2023 and 2022, no such Working Capital Loans were outstanding.

On August 10, 2023, we issued the SVES Promissory Note to SVES LLC under which SVES LLC agreed to extend us $300,000 for working capital purposes. The SVES Promissory Note is non-interest bearing and payable on the closing of the SVES Business Combination. In the event the SVES Business Combination is not consummated, the SVES Promissory Note shall be null and void and we shall not have any obligation to the payee. As of December 31, 2023, SVES LLC had funded $15,600 on the promissory note and had $284,400 available for withdrawal. Due to the termination of the SVES Business Combination, on May 15, 2024, the SVES Promissory Note is null and void.

The Company will need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our Public Shares upon consummation of our Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our Business Combination. If we are unable to complete our Business Combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following our Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations.

Further, we have determined that if we are unable to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period, then we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining stockholders and our Board of Directors, dissolve and liquidate. The date for mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution as well as our working capital deficit raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities should we be required to liquidate after the applicable extension date.

We pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a total of $10,000 per month for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support, pursuant to the Administrative Support Agreement. Upon completion of our initial Business Combination or our liquidation, we will cease paying these monthly fees. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we incurred and paid $120,000 and $105,000 of administrative service fees.

Pursuant to the Business Combination Marketing Agreement, we engaged A.G.P. as an advisor in connection with the Business Combination to assist us in holding meetings with our stockholders to discuss the potential Business Combination and the target business’ attributes, introduce us to potential investors that are interested in purchasing our securities in connection with the initial Business Combination, and assist us with our press releases and public filings in connection with the Business Combination. We will pay A.G.P. a fee in cash for such services upon the consummation of the initial Business Combination in an amount equal to 3.5% of the gross proceeds of the Initial Public Offering, or $5,031,250 in the aggregate; however, no fee will be due if we do not complete an initial Business Combination.

In connection with the Company’s assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 205-40, “Presentation of Financial Statements—Going Concern,” the Company has until February 15, 2025 (absent any extensions of such period, pursuant to the terms described above) to consummate the proposed Business Combination. It is uncertain whether the Company will be able to consummate the proposed Business Combination by this date. If a Business Combination is not consummated by this date, unless that time is extended (as provided above, or pursuant to a stockholder vote), there will be a mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution of the Company. Management has determined that the liquidity condition and mandatory liquidation, should a Business Combination not occur, and potential subsequent dissolution raises substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities should the Company be required to liquidate by February 15, 2025. The Company intends to complete the proposed Business Combination before the end of the Combination Period. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to consummate any Business Combination by the end of the Combination Period.


Emerging Growth Company Status

We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, as modified by the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.

Further, Section 102(b) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we as an emerging growth company can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make comparison of our financial statements with another public company that is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company that has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accounting standards used.

Critical Accounting Estimates

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of our Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Making estimates requires Management to exercise significant judgment. It is at least reasonably possible that the estimate of the effect of a condition, situation or set of circumstances that existed at the date of the financial statements, which Management considered in formulating its estimate, could change in the near term due to one or more future confirming events. Accordingly, the actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. We determined the more significant accounting estimates included in our financial statements is the determination of the fair value of derivative financial instruments.

Derivative Financial Instruments

We evaluate our financial instruments to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815, “Derivatives and Hedging”. For derivative financial instruments that are accounted for as liabilities, such as our Warrants, the derivative instrument is initially recorded at its fair value on the grant date and is then re-valued at each reporting date, with changes in the fair value reported in the statements of operations contained elsewhere in this Report. The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is evaluated at the end of each reporting period. Derivative liabilities are classified in the consolidated balance sheets as current or non-current based on whether or not net-cash settlement or conversion of the instrument could be required within 12 months of the balance sheet date.

The valuation of our Public Warrants is based on a traded market. Our Private Placement Warrants are valued using a Monte Carlo options pricing model which utilizes assumptions related to expected stock-price volatility, expected life, risk-free interest rate and dividend yield. We estimate the volatility of our Common Stock based on projected volatility of comparable public companies that matches the expected remaining life of the warrants. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. treasury zero-coupon yield curve on the grant date for a maturity similar to the expected remaining life of the warrants. The expected life of the Warrants is based on Management assumptions regarding the timing and likelihood of completing a Business Combination. The dividend rate is based on the historical rate, which we anticipate to remain at zero.

The estimates used to calculate the fair value of our derivative assets and liabilities change at each balance sheet date based on our stock price and other assumptions described above. If our assumptions change or we experience significant volatility in our stock price or interest rates, the fair value calculated from one balance sheet period to the next could be materially different.


Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption

Our Class A Common Stock that was sold as part of the Units in the Initial Public Offering contains a redemption feature that allows for the redemption of such Public Shares in connection with our liquidation, or if there is a stockholder vote or tender offer in connection with our initial Business Combination. In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 480-10-S99, “Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity” (“ASC 480-10-S99”), we classify such Public Shares subject to redemption outside of permanent equity as the redemption provisions are not solely within our control. The Public Shares were issued with other freestanding instruments (i.e., warrants) and as such, the initial carrying value of Public Shares classified as temporary equity was the allocated proceeds determined in accordance with ASC Topic 470-20, “Debt—Debt with Conversion and Other Options”. The Public Shares are subject to ASC 480-10-S99 and are currently not redeemable as the redemption is contingent upon the occurrence of events mentioned above. According to ASC 480-10-S99-15, no subsequent adjustment is needed if it is not probable that the instrument will become redeemable.

Accordingly, as of December 31, 2023, 153,295 shares of Class A Common Stock subject to possible redemption were presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders’ equity section of our balance sheet contained elsewhere in this Report. The change in the carrying value of redeemable shares of Class A Common Stock resulted in charges against accumulated deficit.

In connection with the 2022 Special Meeting on December 21, 2022, stockholders holding 14,221,705 Public Shares exercised their right to redeem such shares for a pro rata portion of the funds in the Trust Account (approximately $10.29 per Public Share). Following the redemptions, as of December 31, 2023, there were 153,295 Public Shares outstanding and a total of 807,045 shares of Class A Common Stock were outstanding, including the 653,750 shares of Class A Common Stock that were beneficially owned by our Sponsor.

For a description of the redemptions that occurred in connection with the 2024 Special Meeting, please see “Recent Developments” above.

Recent Accounting Standards

In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU No. 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures (“ASU 2023-09”), which will require the Company to disclose specified additional information in its income tax rate reconciliation and provide additional information for reconciling items that meet a quantitative threshold. ASU 2023-09 will also require the Company to disaggregate its income taxes paid disclosure by federal, state and foreign taxes, with further disaggregation required for significant individual jurisdictions. ASU 2023-09 will become effective for Annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024. The Company is still reviewing the impact of ASU 2023-09.

In August 2020, Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2020-06, “Debt — Debt with Conversion and Other Options” (Subtopic 470-20), and “Derivatives and Hedging — Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity” (Subtopic 815-40) (“ASU 2020-06”) to simplify accounting for certain financial instruments. ASU 2020-06 eliminates the current models that require separation of beneficial conversion and cash conversion features from convertible instruments and simplifies the derivative scope exception guidance pertaining to equity classification of contracts in an entity’s own equity. The new standard also introduces additional disclosures for convertible debt and freestanding instruments that are indexed to and settled in an entity’s own equity. ASU 2020-06 amends the diluted earnings per share guidance, including the requirement to use the if-converted method for all convertible instruments. ASU 2020-06 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. We adopted ASU 2020-06 effective as of April 13, 2021. That adoption of ASU 2020-06 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative