ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 

The following discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and the notes related thereto which are included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those set forth under “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factor Summary,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report.

Overview 

We are a blank check company incorporated on May 13, 2021 as a Cayman Islands exempted company formed for the purpose of effecting an initial business combination. We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using remaining cash in the Trust Account from the proceeds of the offering and the private placement of the private placement warrants, the proceeds of the sale of our shares in connection with our initial business combination (pursuant to forward purchase agreements or backstop agreements we may enter into following the consummation of the offering or otherwise), shares issued to the owners of the target, debt issued to bank or other lenders or the owners of the target, or a combination of the foregoing. 

Recent Developments 

Proposed Business Combination 

On March 25, 2024, the Company, OmnigenicsAI, Merger Sub and MultiplAI entered into the Business Combination Agreement. 

##### Table of Contents

On the Closing Date but prior to the Merger Effective Time, pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, (a) MultiplAI shall, and shall cause the MultiplAI Shareholders (as defined below), and OmnigenicsAI shall cause Parent (as defined below), to consummate all transactions under the MultiplAI Share Purchase Agreement, resulting in the Parent acquiring all of the issued and outstanding MultiplAI Shares, and (b) immediately thereafter, OmnigenicsAI shall, and shall cause Parent to, consummate the MultiplAI Contribution pursuant to which Parent shall contribute all of the issued and outstanding MultiplAI Shares to OmnigenicsAI, OmnigenicsAI shall, and shall cause Parent to, and MultiplAI shall, and shall cause the MultiplAI Shareholders to, assign all of the Parent’s rights under MultiplAI Share Purchase Agreement to OmnigenicsAI, and OmnigenicsAI shall issue to Parent an aggregate amount of 4,000,000 Company Shares (as defined below) in consideration thereof, free and clear of any liens. 

On the Closing Date, following the MultiplAI Contribution but prior to the Merger Effective Time, pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, OmnigenicsAI and MultiplAI shall cause the consummation of the Restructuring, pursuant to which (i) all Indebtedness (subject to certain exceptions) owed by MultiplAI or any Subsidiary of MultiplAI to Parent, any shareholder of Parent or any of the MultiplAI Shareholders, shall be cancelled and extinguished; and (ii) all Indebtedness (subject to certain exceptions) owed by OmnigenicsAI or any Subsidiary of OmnigenicsAI to Parent, any shareholder of Parent or any of the MultiplAI Shareholders, shall be cancelled and extinguished. The Indebtedness described in this paragraph that is not required to be canceled and extinguished at Closing shall have their maturity date extended to three years following the Closing Date. 

On the Closing Date at the Merger Effective Time, pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company (with the Company being the surviving company and becoming a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of OmnigenicsAI) (the “Merger”) and, as a result of the Merger, (a) each ordinary share of the Company (“SPAC Ordinary Share”) outstanding will be exchanged for the right to receive one ordinary share of OmnigenicsAI, nominal value $0.0001 per share (“Company Share”), (b) all warrants to purchase SPAC Ordinary Shares (“SPAC Warrants”) will become warrants of OmnigenicsAI (“Company Warrants”) exercisable for Company Shares, on substantially the same terms as the SPAC Warrants and (c) OmnigenicsAI shall enter into an Assignment, Assumption and Amendment Agreement with the Company and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, a New York corporation, as warrant agent, to amend and assume the Company’s obligations under the existing Warrant Agreement, dated December 6, 2021, to give effect to the conversion of SPAC Warrants to Company Warrants. 

For a full description of the Business Combination Agreement and the Proposed Business Combination, including additional agreements relating to the Proposed Business Combination, please see “Item 1. Business”. 

Fourth Extension 

On December 8, 2023, we held the December 2023 EGM and our shareholders approved an amendment to its Articles and to the Trust Agreement to provide for the Fourth Extension, which extends the termination date up to twelve times for an additional one month each time from December 9, 2023 to December 9, 2024 by depositing the lesser of $0.025 per public share or $125,000 for each one-month extension into the Trust Account. In connection with the December 2023 EGM, the holders of 201,496 public shares properly exercised their right to redeem their shares (and did not withdraw their redemption) for an aggregate redemption amount of $2,246,585. Following such redemptions, $62,410,856 remained in the Trust Account and 5,597,624 public shares remained issued and outstanding. Such remaining amount in the Trust Account will be distributed either to (i) all holders of public shares upon our liquidation or (ii) holders of public shares who elect to have their shares redeemed in connection with the consummation of our initial business combination. 

On December 20, 2023, January 24, 2024, February 12, 2024, March 12, 2024, April 8, 2024 and May 28, 2024, we deposited $125,000 each month into the Trust Account in order to effect six one-month extensions of the termination date to June 9, 2024. 

As of the date of this Form 10-K, the Company is in the process of making further deposits of $125,000 for each of the months of June, July, August and September, to extend the termination date to October 9, 2024. 

##### Table of Contents

Class B Conversion 

On October 2, 2023, in accordance with the provisions of our Articles, Templar Sponsor exercised its rights to convert an aggregate of 4,312,500 Class B ordinary shares into an equal number of Class A Ordinary Shares, on a one-for-one basis (the “Class B Conversion”). As a result of the Class B Conversion, no Class B ordinary shares remain outstanding. 

Results of Operations 

Our entire activity since inception up to December 31, 2023 was in preparation for our formation and the IPO, and since the closing of the IPO, the search for a target and consummating an initial business combination. We will not be generating any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our initial business combination. 

For the year ended December 31, 2022, we had a net income of $13,414,455 which consists of operating costs of $1,118,795 offset by interest income of $2,579,253 from investments in our Trust Account, $249,047 of gain on settlement of deferred underwriting fees and $11,704,950 of unrealized gain on fair value changes of warrants. The operating expenses were primarily due to fees for professionals such as the auditors, legal counsel and consultants, and insurance expenses. 

For the year ended December 31, 2023, we had a net income of $4,256,395 which consists of operating costs of $1,744,855, offset by interest income of $4,024,613 from investments in our Trust Account, $1,625,000 of one time advisory fee income, $878,886 of gain on settlement of trade payables, $117,373 of gain on settlement of debt, $562,277 of unrealized loss on fair value changes of warrants and $82,345 of interest expense. The operating expenses were primarily due to fees for professionals such as the auditors, legal counsel and consultants, and insurance expenses. 

Factors That May Adversely Affect our Results of Operations 

Our results of operations and our ability to complete an initial Business Combination may be adversely affected by various factors that could cause economic uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets, many of which are beyond our control. Our business could be impacted by, among other things, downturns in the financial markets or in economic conditions, increases in oil prices, inflation, increases in interest rates, supply chain disruptions, declines in consumer confidence and spending, public health considerations and geopolitical instability, such as the military conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East. We cannot at this time predict the likelihood of one or more of the above events, their duration or magnitude or the extent to which they may negatively impact our business and our ability to complete an initial business combination. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources and Going Concern 

As of December 31, 2023, the Company had approximately $8,167 in its operating bank account and a working capital deficit of $737,336, excluding accrued interest receivable as it is not available for working capital purposes. 

The Company’s liquidity needs up to December 31, 2023 had been satisfied through a payment from APx Sponsor of $25,000 for the founder shares to cover certain offering expenses. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with an initial business combination, we issued the Amended and Restated Note to Templar Sponsor in February 2024. As of December 31, 2023, there was $520,600 outstanding under the Amended and Restated Note. 

In February 2023 and May 2023, we issued the First Promissory Note and Second Promissory Note, respectively. In August 2023, the Company repaid in full the outstanding balances drawn on the First Promissory Note and Second Promissory Note. 

For more information regarding the First Promissory Note, Second Promissory Note and the Amended and Restated Note, please see Item 1 “Business” in this Annual Report. 

##### Table of Contents

On August 26, 2024, the Company issued an unsecured promissory note (the “Bioceres Note”) in the principal amount of $446,000 to Bioceres LLC (“Bioceres”), an indirect shareholder of OmnigenicsAI Corp, the counterparty to the Company’s previously announced business combination. The Note bears interest at 20% per annum. The Company shall repay all interested accrued and the principal balance on the date on which the Company consummates its initial business combination. The Note is subject to customary events of default, the occurrence of certain of which automatically triggers the unpaid principal balance of the Note as well as all accrued interest and all other sums payable with regard to the Note becoming immediately due and payable. 

Based on the availability under the Amended and Restated Note and the Bioceres Note, management believes that the Company will have sufficient working capital and borrowing capacity to meet its needs through the earlier of the consummation of a business combination or one year from this filing. Over this time period, the Company will be using these funds for paying existing accounts payable and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Proposed Business Combination. 

In connection with the Company’s assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Board’s Account Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-15, “Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern.” The Company has until the expiration of the Combination Period to consummate a Business Combination. It is uncertain that the Company will be able to consummate a business combination, including the Proposed Business Combination by this time. If a business combination is not consummated by this date, there will be a mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution of the Company. Management has determined that the mandatory liquidation, should a business combination not occur, and potential subsequent dissolution raises substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustment that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 

Risks and Uncertainties 

Management continues to evaluate the impact of future global pandemics and geopolitical events and has concluded that while it is reasonably possible that such events could have a negative effect on the Company’s financial position, results of its operations, and/or search for a target company, the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of these financial statements. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

As of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(ii) of Regulation S-K and did not have any commitments or contractual obligations. 

Contractual Obligations 

Administrative Services Agreement 

Commencing on the date that our securities are first listed on Nasdaq through the earlier of consummation of our initial business combination and our liquidation, we were required to pay APX Sponsor or an affiliate thereof up to $10,000 per month for office space, utilities, secretarial and administrative support services provided to members of our management team and other expenses and obligations of APX Sponsor. In connection with the Sponsor Alliance, this agreement has been terminated as of August 30, 2023, and as of December 31, 2023, no fees remain outstanding thereunder. 

Registration Rights 

The holders of the founder shares, Private Placement Warrants and any warrants that may be issued upon conversion of the Working Capital Warrants will be entitled to registration rights pursuant to a registration rights agreement to be signed prior to or on the effective date of the Initial Public Offering, requiring the Company to register such securities for resale (in the case of the founder shares, only after conversion to our Class A ordinary shares). The holders of the majority of these securities are entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that the Company register such securities. In addition, the holders have certain “piggy-back” registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the consummation of a Business Combination and rights to require the Company to register for resale such securities pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act. The Company will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. 

##### Table of Contents

Underwriting Agreement 

In connection with the IPO, the underwriter was granted a 45-day option to purchase up to 2,250,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments at the Proposed Offering price, less the underwriting discounts and commissions. As of December 31, 2021, the underwriter exercised all of the over-allotment units. 

The underwriter was entitled to a cash underwriting discount of 2.00% of the gross proceeds of the Proposed Offering, or $3,450,000 as the over-allotment option was exercised in full. In addition, the underwriter would be entitled to a deferred fee of three and half percent (3.50%) of the gross proceeds of the Proposed Offering, or $6,037,500 as the over-allotment option was exercised in full. The deferred fee would become payable to the underwriter from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. 

Effective as of September 28, 2022, the underwriter from the Initial Public Offering resigned and withdrew from their role in the Business Combination and thereby waived their right to the deferred underwriting commissions in the amount of $6,037,500, which the Company has recorded as a gain on settlement of underwriter fees on the statement of shareholders’ equity for the year ended December 31, 2022 for $5,788,453, which represents the original amount recorded to accumulated deficit, and the remaining balance representing the original amount recorded to the statement of operations of $249,047 was recorded for the year ended December 31, 2022. No deferred underwriting commissions remain outstanding as of December 31, 2023. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

This management’s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to fair value of financial instruments and accrued expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company has identified the following as its critical accounting policies and estimates: 

Warrant Liabilities 

The Company accounts for warrants based on an assessment of the warrant’s specific terms and applicable authoritative guidance in Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 480, “Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity” (“ASC 480”), and ASC 815, “Derivatives and Hedging” (“ASC 815”). The assessment considers whether the warrants are freestanding financial instruments pursuant to ASC 480, meet the definition of a liability pursuant to ASC 480, and whether the warrants meet all of the requirements for equity classification under ASC 815, including whether the warrants are indexed to the Company’s own ordinary shares, among other conditions for equity classification. This assessment, which requires the use of professional judgment, is conducted at the time of warrant issuance and as of each subsequent quarterly period end date while the warrants are outstanding. 

For issued or modified warrants that meet all of the criteria for equity classification, the warrants are required to be recorded as a component of additional paid-in capital at the time of issuance. For issued or modified warrants that do not meet all the criteria for equity classification, the warrants are required to be recorded at their initial fair value on the date of issuance, and each balance sheet date thereafter. Changes in the estimated fair value of the warrants are recognized as a non-cash gain or loss on the statements of operations. The fair value of the warrants was estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model-based approach (see Note 12). 

##### Table of Contents

Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption 

The Company accounts for its ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in ASC Topic 480 “Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity.” Ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable ordinary shares (including ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Company’s control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, ordinary shares are classified as shareholder’s equity. The Company’s ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of the Company’s control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the shareholder’s equity section of the Company’s balance sheet. 

Net Income Per Ordinary Share 

We comply with accounting and disclosure requirements of FASB ASC Topic 260, “Earnings Per Share.” We have two classes of shares, which are referred to as Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Income and losses are shared pro rata between the two classes of shares. Net income per common share is calculated by dividing the net income by the weighted average shares of ordinary shares outstanding for the respective period. 

The calculation of diluted net income does not consider the effect of the warrants underlying the Units sold in the IPO (including the consummation of the Over-allotment) and the private placement warrants to purchase an aggregate of 17,575,000 Class A ordinary shares in the calculation of diluted income per share, because their inclusion would be anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method. As a result, diluted net income per share is the same as basic net income per share for the year ended December 31, 2023. Accretion associated with the redeemable Class A ordinary shares is excluded from earnings per share as the redemption value approximates fair value. 

Recent Accounting Standards 

In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-06, “Debt — Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging — Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entity’s Own Equity” (“ASU 2020-06”), to simplify accounting for certain financial instruments. ASU 2020-06 eliminates the current models that require separation of beneficial conversion and cash conversion features from convertible instruments and simplifies the derivative scope exception guidance pertaining to equity classification of contracts in an entity’s own equity. The new standard also introduces additional disclosures for convertible debt and freestanding instruments that are indexed to and settled in an entity’s own equity. ASU 2020-06 amends the diluted earnings per share guidance, including the requirement to use the if-converted method for all convertible instruments. ASU 2020-06 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact, if any, that ASU 2020-06 would have on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU No. 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures (ASU 2023-09). ASU 2023-09 is intended to enhance the decision usefulness of income tax disclosures and requires the disclosure of various disaggregated information, including an entity’s effective tax rate reconciliation as well as additional information on taxes paid. This ASU is effective on a prospective basis for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024, with early adoption allowed. The Company is currently assessing the impact, if any, ASU 2023-09 would have on its disclosures. 

JOBS Act 

On April 5, 2012, the JOBS Act was signed into law. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We will qualify as an “emerging growth company” and under the JOBS Act will be allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As such, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates. 

##### Table of Contents

Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an “emerging growth company,” we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditor’s attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEO’s compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” whichever is earlier. 

Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements. 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE