\. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following presentation of management’s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our financial statements, the accompanying notes thereto and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This section and other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See “Forward-Looking Statements.”

Overview

AG Acquisition Group III, Inc. (“AG Acquisition Group III,” “we,” “us,” “our,” or the “Company”) was organized as a vehicle to investigate and, if such investigation warrants, acquire a target company or business seeking the perceived advantages of being a publicly held corporation. We are an emerging growth company that is exempt from certain financial disclosure and governance requirements for up to five years as defined in the JOBS Act, that eases restrictions on the sale of securities; and increases the number of shareholders a company must have before becoming subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (the “SEC”) reporting and disclosure rules. Our principal business objective for the next 12 months and beyond such time will be to achieve long-term growth potential through a combination with a business rather than immediate, short-term earnings. We will not restrict our potential candidate target companies to any specific business, industry or geographical location and, thus, may acquire any type of business.

Our current activities are related to seeking new business opportunities. We will use our limited personnel and financial resources in connection with such activities. It may be expected that pursuing a new business opportunity will involve the issuance of restricted shares of common stock. At June 30, 2024, we had $1,801 of cash assets and total liabilities of $0. We have generated no revenues since inception.

We have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards under Section 102(b) of the JOBS Act, that allows us to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until those standards apply to private companies. As a result of this election, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates.

We do not currently engage in any business activities that provide cash flow. The costs of investigating and analyzing business combinations for the next 12 months and beyond such time will be paid with money in our treasury or with additional amounts, as necessary, to be loaned to or invested in us by our stockholders, management or other investors.

During the next 12 months, we anticipate incurring costs related to:

Our officer and director, Laura Anthony, currently is providing legal services to the Company without charge.

We believe we will be able to meet the costs of filing reports under the Exchange Act during the next 12 months through use of funds to be loaned to or invested in us by our management or other investors. However, there is no guarantee that such additional funds will be made available to us or on terms that are favorable to us. If we enter into a business combination with a target entity, we will request the target company to pay the acquisition related fees and expenses as a condition precedent to such an agreement. Our management may also agree to invest or loan money to cover such expenses. To date, we have had no discussions with our management or other investors, regarding funding and no funding commitment for future expenses has been obtained. If in the future we need funds to pay expenses, we will consider these and other yet to be identified options for raising funds and/or paying expenses. If our management, or other investors, does not loan to or invest sufficient funds in us, then we will not be able to meet our SEC reporting obligations and will not be able to attract a private company with which to combine.

We have no source of revenues and will quickly have a stockholders’ deficit. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We plan to devote our efforts to locating merger candidates since effectiveness of our registration statement on Form 10, as amended, on September 30, 2021. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to develop additional sources of capital, locate and complete a merger with another company, and ultimately, achieve profitable operations.

The Company may consider a business which has recently commenced operations, is in need of additional funds for expansion into new products or markets, is seeking to develop a new product or service, or is an established business which may be experiencing financial or operating difficulties and is in need of additional capital. Our management believes that the public company status that results from a combination with the Company will provide such company greater access to the capital markets, increase its visibility in the investment community, and offer the opportunity to utilize its stock to make acquisitions. However, there is no assurance that the Company will have greater access to capital due to its public company status, and therefore a business combination with an operating company in need of additional capital may expose the Company to additional risks and challenges. In the alternative, a business combination may involve the acquisition of, or merger with, a company which does not need substantial additional capital, but which desires to establish a public trading market for its shares, while avoiding, among other things, the time delays, significant expense, and loss of voting control which may occur in a public offering.

Management believes there exist numerous private operating businesses seeking the perceived benefits of operating as a publicly registered corporation. Perceived benefits may include increasing equity financing options, providing stock options or similar benefits as incentives to key employees, and achieving liquidity (subject to restrictions of applicable statutes), for all shareholders. Management further believes that certain private operating businesses prefer merging into a publicly registered company so as to eliminate the time and expense of conducting an initial public offering.

We have, and will continue to have, no capital with which to provide the owners of business entities with any cash or other assets. However, owners of these private operating businesses will still incur significant legal and accounting costs in connection with the acquisition of a publicly registered corporation, including the costs of preparing Current Reports on Form 8-K, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and agreements and related reports and documents. The Exchange Act specifically requires that within four business days of completion of a merger or acquisition transaction with a private operating business, a Current Report on Form 8-K be filed containing Form 10 information regarding the private operating company, including audited financial statements.

Continuing Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources

We have no known demands or commitments and are not aware of any events or uncertainties as of the date of this report that will result in or that are reasonably likely to materially increase or decrease our current liquidity. We had no material commitments for capital expenditures as of June 30, 2024.

The Company currently plans to satisfy its cash requirements for the next 12 months through its current cash and by borrowing from its stockholders. The Company currently expects that money borrowed will be used during the next 12 months to satisfy the Company’s operating costs, professional fees and for general corporate purposes. The Company may explore alternative financing sources, although it currently has not done so. However, there is no guarantee that such additional funds will be made available to us or on terms that are favorable to us. If we enter into a business combination with a target entity, we will request the target company to pay the acquisition related fees and expenses as a condition precedent to such an agreement. Our current stockholders may also agree to invest or loan money to cover such expenses. To date, we have had no discussions with our stockholders or other investors, regarding funding and no funding commitment for future expenses has been obtained. If in the future we need funds to pay expenses, we will consider these and other yet to be identified options for raising funds and/or paying expenses. If our current stockholders, or other investors, do not loan to or invest sufficient funds in us, then we will not be able to meet our SEC reporting obligations and will not be able to attract a private company with which to combine.

The Company will use its limited personnel and financial resources in connection with seeking new business opportunities, including seeking an acquisition or merger with an operating company. It may be expected that entering into a new business opportunity or business combination will involve the issuance of a substantial number of restricted shares of common stock. If such additional restricted shares of common stock are issued, the shareholders will experience a dilution in their ownership interest in the Company. If a substantial number of restricted shares are issued in connection with a business combination, a change in control may be expected to occur.

There are no limitations in the certificate of incorporation on the Company’s ability to borrow funds or raise funds through the issuance of capital stock to effectuate a business combination. The Company’s limited resources and lack of recent operating history may make it difficult to borrow funds or raise capital. Such inability to borrow funds or raise funds through the issuance of capital stock required to effect or facilitate a business combination may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and future prospects, including the ability to complete a business combination. To the extent that debt financing ultimately proves to be available, any borrowing will subject the Company to various risks traditionally associated with indebtedness, including the risks of interest rate fluctuations and insufficiency of cash flow to pay principal and interest, including debt of an acquired business.

The Company currently has no plans to conduct any research and development or to purchase or sell any significant equipment. The Company does not expect to hire any employees during the next 12 months.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

None.