Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The following discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited financial statements and the notes related thereto which are included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those set forth under “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factor Summary,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Overview

Athena Technology Acquisition Corp. II was incorporated in Delaware on May 20, 2021. The Company was formed for the purpose of entering into a merger, stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or other similar business transaction with one or more businesses that the Company has not yet identified (a “Business Combination”).

We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful.

Recent Events

Proposed Business Combination

On April 19, 2023, we entered into a Business Combination Agreement (the “Business Combination Agreement”) with the Sponsor, The Air Water Company, a Cayman Islands exempted company (“Holdings”), Project Hydro Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Merger Sub”), Air Water Ventures Ltd, a private company formed under the Laws of England and Wales (“AWV” or “Target”), and those shareholders of AWV party thereto (collectively, the “AWV Shareholders”), pursuant to which, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions precedent in the Business Combination Agreement, the following transactions would occur: (a) the split and subdivision of each AWV share into a number of AWV shares equal to the Exchange Ratio (as defined in the Business Combination Agreement) (the “Recapitalization”), (b) immediately following the Recapitalization, the acquisition by Holdings of all of the issued and outstanding share capital of AWV from the AWV Shareholders in exchange for the issuance of Holdings ordinary shares, pursuant to which AWV will become a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Holdings (the “Share Acquisition”), (c) immediately following the Share Acquisition, the merger of Merger Sub with and into Athena (the “Merger”), with Athena surviving the Merger and the security holders of Athena (other than the security holders of Athena electing to redeem their shares of Athena common stock or shares of Athena common stock held in treasury) becoming security holders of Holdings and (d) the other transactions contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement and the ancillary documents referred to therein (together with the Recapitalization, Merger and Share Acquisition, the “Transactions”).

In consideration for the Share Acquisition, each AWV Shareholder would receive one Holdings ordinary share for each ordinary share they hold in AWV immediately prior to the Share Acquisition. In consideration for the Merger, each Athena shareholder would receive one Holdings ordinary share for each share of common stock they hold in Athena immediately prior to the Merger. In accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions of the Business Combination Agreement, the consideration to be received by the AWV Shareholders in connection with the Share Acquisition shall be the issuance of an aggregate number of Holdings common shares equal to (a) $300,000,000 plus the net amount of certain equity investments in the Company after April 19, 2023 divided by (b) $10.00.

Sponsor Support Agreement

In connection with the execution of the Business Combination Agreement, the Sponsor entered into a Sponsor Support Agreement (the “Sponsor Support Agreement”) with Athena, Holdings and AWV, pursuant to which the Sponsor agreed to, among other things, (a) waive its anti-dilution rights in the Charter with respect to the SPAC Class B common stock (together with the SPAC Class A common stock, the “Sponsor Securities”), (b) vote at any meeting of Athena shareholders to be called for approval of the Transactions all Sponsor Securities held of record or thereafter acquired in favor of the Shareholder Approval Matters (as defined in the Business Combination Agreement), (c) be bound by certain other covenants and agreements related to the Transactions and (d) be bound by certain transfer restrictions with respect to the Sponsor Securities and warrants exercisable for Sponsor Securities, in each case, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Sponsor Support Agreement. The Sponsor Support Agreement also provided that the Sponsor has agreed irrevocably to waive its redemption rights in connection with the consummation of the Transactions with respect to any Sponsor Securities they may hold.


Lock-Up Agreements

In connection with the closing, the AWV Shareholders and members of AWV’s management would each enter into an agreement (the “AWV Shareholder Lock-Up Agreement” and the “Management Lock-Up Agreement,” respectfully) providing that each AWV Shareholder would not, subject to certain exceptions, transfer seventy-five percent of its Restricted Securities (as defined in the AWV Shareholder Lock-Up Agreement) during the period commencing from the closing date until the earlier of (i) six months after the closing, (ii) the first trading day following the date on which the last reported sale price of the Holdings ordinary shares equals or exceeds $12.00 per share (as adjusted) for any 20 trading days within any consecutive 30-trading day period commencing 30 days following the closing or (iii) the date following the closing on which Holdings completes a liquidation, merger, capital stock exchange, reorganization or other similar transaction in which all of its stockholders have the right to exchange their shares of common stock for cash, securities or other property.

In connection with the closing, the Sponsor and certain individuals who are members of Athena’s board of directors and/or management team (such individuals, the “Insiders”) would enter into an agreement (the “Sponsor Lock-Up Agreement”) providing that the Sponsor and the Insiders will not, subject to certain exceptions, transfer (i) the Base Restricted Securities (as defined below) during the period commencing from the closing date until the date that is the earlier of (x) six months after the closing and (y) the date following the closing on which Holdings completes a liquidation, merger, capital stock exchange, reorganization or other similar transaction that results in all of its stockholders having the right to exchange their shares of common stock for cash, securities or other property or (ii) the Special Restricted Securities (as defined below) during the period commencing from the closing date until the date that is the earliest of (w) 18 months after the closing, (x) with respect to fifty percent of the Special Restricted Securities, the first trading day following the date on which the last reported sale price of Holdings ordinary shares equals or exceeds $12.50 per share (as adjusted), (y) with respect to fifty percent of the Special Restricted Securities, the first trading day following the date on which the last reported sale price of Holdings ordinary shares equals or exceeds $15.00 per share (as adjusted) and (z) the date following the closing on which Holdings completes a liquidation, merger, capital stock exchange, reorganization or other similar transaction that results in all of its stockholders having the right to exchange their shares of common stock for cash, securities or other property. For purposes of the Sponsor Lock-Up Agreement, (a) the “Special Restricted Securities” means a number of Holdings ordinary shares to be received by the Sponsor and the Insiders pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement equal to the aggregate number of Holdings ordinary shares that AWV and Athena provide to PIPE Investors as an incentive to enter into the applicable Subscription Agreement, not to exceed 3,552,500 Holdings ordinary shares, and (b) the “Base Restricted Securities” means a number of Holdings ordinary shares to be received by the Sponsor and the Insiders pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement equal to 6,660,938 minus the number of Special Restricted Securities.

New Registration Rights Agreement

The Business Combination Agreement contemplated that, at the closing, Holdings, certain AWV equity holders, the Sponsor and Athena will enter into a Registration Rights Agreement (the “New Registration Rights Agreement”), pursuant to which Holdings would agree to register for resale certain shares of Holdings ordinary shares and other equity securities of Holdings that are held by the parties thereto from time to time. Pursuant to the New Registration Rights Agreement, Holdings would agree to file a shelf registration statement registering the sale or resale of all of the Registrable Securities (as defined in the New Registration Rights Agreement) no later than 30 days after the closing date. Holdings also agreed to provide customary “piggyback” registration rights, subject to certain requirements and customary conditions. The New Registration Rights Agreement also provides that Holdings will pay certain expenses relating to such registrations and indemnify the shareholders against certain liabilities.

Warrant Assumption Agreement

The Business Combination Agreement contemplated that, immediately prior to the merger effective time, Athena, Holdings and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company (the “Warrant Agent”) would enter into an Assignment, Assumption and Amendment Agreement, which would amend (i) that certain Amended and Restated Private Warrant Agreement, dated as of March 29, 2022, by and between Athena and the Warrant Agent (the “Existing Private Warrant Agreement”), and (ii) that certain Amended and Restated Public Warrant Agreement, dated as of March 29, 2022, by and between Athena and the Warrant Agent (the “Existing Public Warrant Agreement” and, together with the Existing Private Warrant Agreement, the “Existing Warrant Agreements”) pursuant to which (a) Athena would assign to Holdings, and Holdings will assume, all of Athena’s right, title and interest in and to the Existing Warrant Agreements and (b) each Athena warrant would be modified to no longer entitle the holder to purchase Athena shares of common stock and instead acquire an equal number of Holdings ordinary shares per Athena warrant.


First Amendment to Business Combination Agreement

On June 16, 2023, the Company and AWV entered into that certain First Amendment to the Business Combination Agreement (the “First BCA Amendment”). The First BCA Amendment amended the Business Combination Agreement to extend the SPAC Termination Notice Date (as defined in the Business Combination Agreement) from June 13, 2023 to July 21, 2023. Pursuant to the First BCA Amendment, the Company could terminate the Business Combination Agreement by written notice to AWV on (or within three Business Days after) July 21, 2023 if, prior to such date, AWV and the Company had conducted good faith marketing efforts to potential PIPE investors regarding the PIPE investment, and following such marketing efforts the Company determined, in its reasonable discretion, that the parties do not have a reasonable likelihood of consummating a PIPE investment of at least $30,000,000 in the aggregate and otherwise on terms reasonably satisfactory to the Company prior to the Outside Date.

Second Amendment to Business Combination Agreement

On July 20, 2023, the Company and AWV entered into that certain Second Amendment to the Business Combination Agreement (the “Second BCA Amendment”). The Second BCA Amendment amended the Business Combination Agreement to extend the SPAC Termination Notice Date from July 21, 2023 to August 21, 2023. Pursuant to the Second BCA Amendment, the Company could terminate the Business Combination Agreement by written notice to AWV on (or within three Business Days after) August 21, 2023 if, prior to such date, AWV and the Company had conducted good faith marketing efforts to potential PIPE investors regarding the PIPE investment, and following such marketing efforts the Company determined, in its reasonable discretion, that the parties do not have a reasonable likelihood of consummating a PIPE investment of at least $30,000,000 in the aggregate and otherwise on terms reasonably satisfactory to the Company prior to the Outside Date.

Third Amendment to Business Combination Agreement

On August 22, 2023, the Company and AWV entered into that certain Third Amendment to the Business Combination Agreement (the “Third BCA Amendment”). The Third BCA Amendment amended the Business Combination Agreement to extend the SPAC Termination Notice Date from August 21, 2023 to September 25, 2023. Pursuant to the Third BCA Amendment, the Company could terminate the Business Combination Agreement by written notice to AWV on (or within seven calendar days after) September 25, 2023 if, prior to such date, (i) the parties had not entered into one or more definitive written subscription agreements for a PIPE investment of at least $30,000,000 in the aggregate on terms reasonably satisfactory to the Company or (ii) the registration statement had not been filed with the SEC.

Fourth Amendment to Business Combination Agreement

On September 30, 2023, the Company and AWV entered into that certain Fourth Amendment to the Business Combination Agreement (the “Fourth BCA Amendment”). Pursuant to the Fourth BCA Amendment, the Company could terminate the Business Combination Agreement by written notice to AWV up until such date that the parties had entered into one or more definitive written subscription agreements for a PIPE investment of at least $30,000,000 in the aggregate on terms reasonably satisfactory to the Company.

Termination of Business Combination Agreement

On December 13, 2023, pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, the Company, Sponsor, Holdings, Project Hydro Merger Sub Inc. and AWV entered into a Mutual Release Agreement (“Mutual Release Agreement”) to terminate the Business Combination Agreement (the “Mutual Release”). As a result of the Mutual Release Agreement, the Business Combination Agreement is of no further force and effect, with the exception of specified provisions set forth in the Mutual Release Agreement, including confidentiality obligations in connection with the Business Combination Agreement and related transactions, which survive the Mutual Release and remain in full force and effect in accordance with their respective terms. Additionally, each of the parties to the Business Combination Agreement has agreed on behalf of themselves and their respective related parties, to a release of claims relating to the Business Combination Agreement and the related transactions, including the Mutual Release, with the exception of claims related to specified provisions set forth in the Mutual Release Agreement. Concurrently with the Mutual Release, the Sponsor Support Agreement, automatically terminated. The Company intends to identify another target business with which to pursue an initial business combination.


Special Meetings of Stockholders

On June 13, 2023, the Company held a special meeting of its stockholders (the “First Extension Special Meeting”), at which the stockholders approved proposals to amend the Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the “Charter”) to (i) extend the date by which the Company must consummate its initial business combination from June 14, 2023 to up to March 14, 2024 (the “First Extension Proposal”) by electing to extend the date to consummate an initial business combination on a monthly basis up to nine times by an additional one month each time after June 14, 2023 (the date which is 18 months from the closing date of the IPO) until March 14, 2024 (the date which is 27 months from the closing date of the IPO), or a total of up to nine months, provided that the Sponsor or its affiliates or permitted designees deposited into the Trust Account the lesser of (a) $60,000 and (b) $0.03 for each share of common stock issued and outstanding that had not been redeemed in accordance with the terms of the Charter and (ii) provide holders of the Company’s Class B common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the “Class B common stock”), the right to convert any and all of their Class B common stock into the Company’s Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the “Class A common stock”), on a one-for-one basis prior to the closing of a business combination at the election of the holder (the “Founder Share Amendment Proposal”). The stockholders approved the amendments at the First Extension Special Meeting and the Company filed amendments to the Charter to effectuate the accepted proposals on June 13, 2023 and June 20, 2023. At the First Extension Special Meeting, the Stockholders also approved a proposal to amend the Company’s Investment Management Trust Agreement, dated as of December 9, 2021, by and between the Company and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company (the “Trust Agreement”), allowing the Company to extend the date to consummate an initial business combination on a monthly basis as described in the First Extension Proposal. The Company entered into such amendment to the Trust Agreement on June 13, 2023\. In connection with the First Extension Special Meeting, 23,176,961 shares of the Company’s Class A common stock were redeemed.

On June 21, 2023, the Company issued an aggregate of 8,881,250 shares of its Class A common stock to the Sponsor, upon the conversion of an equal number of shares of Class B common stock of the Company as permitted by the Charter (the “Conversion”). The 8,881,250 shares of Class A common stock issued in connection with the Conversion are subject to the same restrictions as applied to the shares of Class B common stock before the Conversion, including, among other things, certain transfer restrictions, waiver of redemption rights and the obligation to vote in favor of an initial business combination, as described in the prospectus for the Company’s initial public offering.

On March 12, 2024, the Company held a special meeting of its stockholders (the “Second Extension Special Meeting”), at which the stockholders approved proposals to amend the Charter to (i) extend the date by which the Company must consummate its initial business combination on a monthly basis for up to nine times by an additional one month each time for a total of up to nine months from March 14, 2024 (the date which is 27 months from the closing date of the Company’s IPO) to December 14, 2024 (the date which is 36 months from the closing date of the IPO) provided that the Sponsor or its affiliates or permitted designees deposit into the Trust Account the lesser of (a) $40,000 and (b) $0.02 for each share of the Company’s common stock issued and outstanding that has not been redeemed in accordance with the terms of the Charter upon the election of each such one-month extension unless the closing of the Company’s initial business combination shall have occurred and (ii) eliminate the limitation that the Company may not redeem public shares in an amount that would cause the Company’s net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001 immediately prior to or upon consummation of an initial business combination. The Company filed an amendment to the Charter to reflect the accepted proposals on March 12, 2024. In connection with the special meeting held on March 12, 2024, 910,258 shares of the Company’s Class A common stock were redeemed.

Trust Deposits (See above “Special Meeting of Stockholders” and Note 1)

On March 13, 2024 the Company deposited $25,755.62 into the Trust Account allowing the Company to extend the period of time it has to consummate its initial Business Combination by one month from March 14, 2024 to April 14, 2024.

On April 16, 2024 the Company deposited $ 25,755.62 into the Trust Account allowing the Company to extend the period of time it has to consummate its initial Business Combination by one month from April 14, 2024 to May 14, 2024.

On May 14, 2024, the Company deposited $25,756 into the Trust Account allowing the Company to extend the period of time it has to consummate its initial Business Combination by one month from May 14, 2024 to June 14, 2024.

On June 14, 2024, the Company deposited $25,756 into the Trust Account allowing the Company to extend the period of time it has to consummate its initial Business Combination by one month from June 14, 2024 to July 14, 2024.

On July 10, 2024, the Company deposited $25,756 into the Trust Account allowing the Company to extend the period of time it has to consummate its initial Business Combination by one month from July 14, 2024 to August 14, 2024.

On August 8, 2024, the Company deposited $25,756 into the Trust Account allowing the Company to extend the period of time it has to consummate its initial Business Combination by one month from August 14, 2024 to September 14, 2024.

On September 12, 2024, the Company deposited $25,756 into the Trust Account allowing the Company to extend the period of time it has to consummate its initial Business Combination by one month from September 14, 2024 to October 14, 2024.


NYSE American

On July 17, 2023, our Board of Directors authorized the transfer of the listing of our Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, redeemable warrants, each exercisable to purchase one share of Class A common stock at a price of $11.50 per share, and units, each consisting of one share of Class A common stock and one-half of one Warrant, from the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) to the NYSE American. The listing and trading of the Listed Securities on the NYSE ended at market close on July 20, 2023, and the trading of the Listed Securities on the NYSE American commenced at market open on July 21, 2023.

The Class A common stock, Warrants and Units each continues to be traded on the NYSE American under the ticker symbols ATEK, ATEK WS and ATEK.U, respectively. On April 17, 2024, the Company received an official notice of noncompliance (the “NYSE American Notice”) from NYSE Regulation stating that we the Company is not in compliance with NYSE American continued listing standards (the “Filing Delinquency Notification”) under the timely filing criteria included in Section 1007 of the NYSE American Company Guide (the “Company Guide”) due to the failure to timely file this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the “Delinquent Report”) by the filing due date of April 16, 2024 (the “Filing Delinquency”.)

The Company believes that upon the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K the Company will have cured the Filing Delinquency, however there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to comply with the NYSE American continued listing requirements. If the Company fails to satisfy the continued listing requirements of the NYSE American, such as the corporate governance requirements, minimum bid price requirement or the minimum stockholder’s equity requirement, NYSE American may take steps to de-list our common stock. In determining whether to afford a company a cure period prior to commencing suspension or delisting procedures, the NYSE American does analyze all relevant facts including any past history of late filings. Any de-listing would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock and would impair stockholders’ ability to sell or purchase their common stock when they wish to do so. There can be no assurance given that we will be able to continue to satisfy our continued listing requirements and maintain the listing of our common stock on the NYSE American going forward.

Use of Restricted Funds

Through April 2023, the Company withdrew $356,693 of interest and dividend income earned in the Trust Account for payment of the Company’s 2021 and 2022 franchise tax liabilities. The Company settled the 2021 and 2022 franchise tax liabilities of $356,693 in April 2023.

On June 21, 2023, the Company withdrew from the Trust Account an aggregate amount of $2.4 million to be used for tax purposes. It was determined as of June 30, 2023 that the withdrawal amount was approximately $328,000 in excess of the amount necessary for tax purposes. As a result, the overdrawn amount of $328,000 was allocated back to the contingently redeemable Class A common stock subject to possible redemption and distributed back to the Trust Account on August 17, 2023. After the overdrawn amount was returned to the Trust Account, approximately $2.1 million of restricted funds remained in the Company’s operating account for future payment of franchise and income taxes (the “Restricted Funds”).

During the quarter ending December 31, 2023, the Company used portions of the Restricted Funds to pay for general operating expenses in the aggregate amount of $240,528. Management later determined that this use of Restricted Funds was not in accordance with the Charter and the amended Trust Agreement. Following the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, on April 10, 2024, the misallocated $240,528 of Restricted Funds was replenished to the Company’s operating account in the form of an intercompany loan made by Sponsor (see Note 11).

As of December 31, 2023, none of the Restricted Funds had been remitted to satisfy franchise and income tax liabilities, but on April 3, 2024, the Company paid $720,192 to satisfy income tax liabilities for 2022 (see Note 11). On May 16, 2024, the Company paid $820,571 of 2023 income tax liabilities (see Note 11). On July 22, 2024, the Company paid $79,849 of 2023 Delaware franchise tax liabilities (see Note 11).


Results of Operations 

We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any operating revenues to date. Our only activities from May 20, 2021 (inception) through December 31, 2023 were organizational activities and those necessary to prepare for our initial public offering, described below, and since our initial public offering, the search for a prospective initial business combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our initial business combination, at the earliest. We expect to generate non-operating income in the form of interest income from the proceeds of our initial public offering placed in the Trust Account. We expect that we will incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses in connection with searching for, and completing, a business combination.

For the year ended December 31, 2023, we had a net income of $1,339,504, which consisted of interest income on investment held in the Trust Account of $6,009,585, offset by operating expenses of $3,528,434, finance cost of $179,819 and income tax expenses of $820,571.

For the year ended December 31, 2022, we had a net income of $1,453,867, which primarily consists of by interest earned on investments held in the Trust Account of $3,696,796, offset by general and administrative of $1,309,001, franchise tax expense of $200,000 and provision for income taxes of $733,928.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The securities in our initial public offering were registered under the Securities Act on a Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333-261287). The Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended (the “Registration Statement”), for the Company’s initial public offering was declared effective on December 9, 2021. On December 14, 2021, the Company consummated its initial public offering of 25,000,000 units. Each unit consists of one share of Class A common stock and one-half of one redeemable warrant, with each warrant entitling the holder thereof to purchase one share of Class A common stock for $11.50 per share. The units were sold at a price of $10.00 per unit, generating gross proceeds of $250,000,000.

Simultaneously with the closing of our initial public offering, we consummated the sale of 950,000 private placement units at a price of $10.00 per private placement unit in a private placement with our Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $9,500,000.

Subsequent to the closing of our initial public offering, we consummated the closing of the sale of 375,000 additional units upon receiving notice of the underwriter’s election to partially exercise their over-allotment option, generating additional gross proceeds of $3,750,000. Simultaneously with the exercise of the over-allotment, we consummated the private placement of an additional 3,750 private placement units to our Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $37,500.

Offering costs for our initial public offering amounted to $14,420,146, consisting of $5,000,000 of underwriting fees, $8,956,250 of deferred underwriting fees payable (which are held in the Trust Account) and $463,896 of other costs. The $8,956,250 of deferred underwriting fee payable is contingent upon the consummation of a business combination by December 14, 2024, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement.

Following the closing of the initial public offering and partial exercise of the over-allotment, $256,287,500 of the net proceeds from the initial public offering (including the over-allotment units) and a portion of the private placement units was placed in the Trust Account and invested in U.S. government treasury obligations with a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, which invest only in direct U.S. government treasury obligations, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a business combination and (ii) the distribution of the Trust Account, as described below.

As of December 31, 2023, the accumulated interest income earned on investments held in Trust Account amounted to $9,707,058 and total amounts withdrawn from the Trust Account to pay the Company’s franchise and income tax obligations amounted to $2,422,114 (net of $327,875 cash deposited to Trust Account to refund over withdrawal). In connection with the First Extension Special Meeting held on June 13, 2023, 23,176,961 shares of the Company’s Class A common stock were redeemed. On June 21, 2023, $239,604,919 was withdrawn from the Trust Account to pay the redeeming holders and the 23,176,961 shares of the Company’s Class A common stock that were redeemed were cancelled. In connection with the Second Extension Special Meeting held on March 12, 2024, 910,258 shares of the Company’s Class A common stock were redeemed. On April 5, 2024, $10,179,663 was withdrawn from the Trust Account to pay the redeeming holders and the 910,258 shares of the Company’s Class A common stock that were redeemed were cancelled.


During the quarter ending December 31, 2023, the Company used portions of the Restricted Funds to pay for general operating expenses in the aggregate amount of $240,528. Management later determined that this use of Restricted Funds was not in accordance with the Charter and the amended Trust Agreement. Following the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, on April 10, 2024, the misallocated $240,528 of Restricted Funds was replenished to the Company’s operating account in the form of an intercompany loan made by Sponsor (see Note 11).

As of December 31, 2023, none of the Restricted Funds had been remitted to satisfy franchise and income tax liabilities, but on April 3, 2024, the Company paid $720,192 to satisfy income tax liabilities for 2022 (see Note 11). On May 16, 2024, the Company paid $820,571 of 2023 income tax liabilities (see Note 11). On July 22, 2024, the Company paid $79,849 of 2023 Delaware franchise tax liabilities (see Note 11).

For the year ended December 31, 2023, $896,106 of cash was used in operating activities, net cash provided by investing activities was $241,607,033 and net cash used in financing activities was $239,304,919.

For the year ended December 31, 2022, cash used in operating activities was $1,107,579 and no cash flows from investing and financing activities.

At December 31, 2023, we had investments held in the Trust Account of $24,387,525. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (less taxes payable), to complete our business combination. We may withdraw interest to pay our taxes. We estimate our annual franchise tax obligations, based on the number of shares of Athena common stock authorized and outstanding after the completion of the initial public offering, to be $200,000, which is the maximum amount of annual franchise taxes payable by us as a Delaware corporation per annum, which we may pay from funds from the initial public offering held outside of the Trust Account or from interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and released to us for this purpose. Our annual income tax obligations will depend on the amount of interest and other income earned on the amounts held in the Trust Account. We expect the interest earned on the amount in the Trust Account will be sufficient to pay our income taxes. To the extent that our equity or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our business combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies.

However, as the Trust Account balance may not be sufficient after the payment of our annual taxes, the Company will likely need to raise additional funds prior to the closing of a Business Combination to satisfy further tax liabilities, operational costs and closing costs. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, any loan made to the Company for the purpose of paying overdue tax obligations would be repaid only out of funds held outside the Trust Account. As of the date of this Annual Report on form 10-K, the Company has not obtained any commitments to provide additional funds and the Company’s board of directors has not approved any method of funding the Company’s further tax and cost obligations.

At December 31, 2023, we had operating cash of $0, restricted cash and cash equivalents to pay tax obligations of $1,824,893 and working capital deficit of $5,625,494. As of December 31, 2023, approximately $1,767,331 of the amount on deposit in the Trust Account represented interest income, which is available to pay the Company’s tax obligations.

As of December 31, 2023, the Sponsor has deposited an aggregate of $300,000 into the Trust Account to cover five of the nine potential monthly extensions of the deadline by which the Company must consummate its initial business pursuant to the Charter and the amended Trust Agreement. In November and December 2023, the Company advanced an aggregate amount of $120,000 from its operating account into the trust account on Sponsor’s behalf to extend the time the Company has to complete an initial business combination to January 14, 2024. These advances were recorded as Due from Sponsor in the balance sheets.

In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a business combination, the Sponsor, or an affiliate of the Sponsor, or certain of the Company’s officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds as may be required (“Working Capital Loans”). If the Company completes a business combination, the Company will repay the Working Capital Loans out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to the Company. Otherwise, the Working Capital Loans would be repaid only out of funds held outside the Trust Account. In the event that a business combination does not close, the Company may use a portion of proceeds held outside the Trust Account to repay the Working Capital Loans, but no proceeds held in the Trust Account would be used to repay the Working Capital Loans. Except for the foregoing, the terms of such Working Capital Loans, if any, have not been determined and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. The Working Capital Loans would either be repaid upon consummation of a business combination, without interest, or, at the lender’s discretion, up to $1.5 million of such Working Capital Loans may be convertible into units of the post business combination entity at a price of $10.00 per unit. The units would be identical to the private placement units. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, there were $360,060 and $0, respectively, Working Capital Loans outstanding (Note 6).


In connection with the Company’s assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with FASB ASC 205-40, “Presentation of Financial Statements - Going Concern” (“ASC 205-40”), management has determined that the Company’s liquidity position and mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company intends to complete its initial Business Combination before the mandatory liquidation date; however, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to consummate any Business Combination by December 14, 2024, the Current Outside Date, or by the Extension date if approved by the stockholders at a special meeting. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities should the Company be required to liquidate after December 14, 2024. The financial statements do not include any adjustment that might be necessary if the Company is unable to continue as a going concern.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have no obligations, assets, or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2023. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets.

Contractual Obligations

We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay our Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, and administrative and support services, provided to the Company. We began incurring these fees on December 9, 2021, and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of a Business Combination and the Company’s liquidation.

The underwriters are entitled to deferred underwriting commissions of $0.35 per unit ($0.55 per unit from the over-allotment units), or $8,956,250 from the closing of the initial public offering and the over-allotment units. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes a business combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement.

On May 17, 2023, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as representative of the underwriters (“Citigroup”), agreed to formally waive the deferred underwriting commissions of $8,956,250 in full, pursuant to a deferred fee waiver letter agreement between Citigroup and the Company only upon a successful Business Combination with AWV, as further described above (see Note 7). The waiver of deferred underwriting commissions is contingent upon a successful Business Combination with AWV, thus, as of December 31, 2023, the full amount of $8,956,250 remains outstanding.

The holders of Founder Shares, Private Placement Units and units that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans, if any, are entitled to registration rights pursuant to a certain registration rights agreement, dated December 9, 2021. These holders are entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that the Company register such securities. In addition, these holders will have certain “piggyback” registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the Company’s completion of its initial Business Combination. The Company will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements.

JOBS Act

On April 5, 2012, the JOBS Act was signed into law. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an “emerging growth company” and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We have elected to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As such, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates. 


Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an “emerging growth company,” we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditor’s attestation report on our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of executive compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our IPO or until we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” whichever is earlier.

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies:

Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption

We account for our common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in ASC 480, “Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity” (“ASC 480”). Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders’ equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, common stock subject to possible redemption is presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders’ deficit section of our balance sheets. This method would view the end of the reporting period as if it were also the redemption date for the security. Increases or decreases in the carrying amount of redeemable common stock are affected by charges against additional paid in capital and accumulated deficit.

Net Income (loss) Per Share

The Company complies with accounting and disclosure requirements of FASB ASC Topic 260, “Earnings Per Share.” Net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common stock outstanding during the period. The Company has two classes of shares, which are referred to as Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Earnings and losses are shared pro rata between the two classes of shares. Public Warrants (see Note 4 to the financial statements) and Private Placement Warrants (see Note 5 to the financial statements) to purchase 13,164,375 shares of Class A common stock at $11.50 per share were issued on December 14, 2021. At December 31, 2023 and 2022, no Public Warrants or Private Placement Warrants have been exercised. The 13,164,375 potential shares of Class A common stock for outstanding Public Warrants and Private Placement Warrants to purchase the Company’s stock were excluded from diluted earnings per share for the period ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 because they are contingently exercisable, and the contingencies have not yet been met. As a result, diluted net income (loss) per common stock is the same as basic net income (loss) per common stock for the period.

Accounting for Warrants

The Company accounts for warrants as either equity-classified or liability-classified instruments based on an assessment of the instruments’ specific terms and applicable authoritative guidance in ASC 480 and ASC 815, “Derivatives and Hedging” (“ASC 815”). The assessment considers whether the instruments are freestanding financial instruments pursuant to ASC 480, meet the definition of a liability pursuant to ASC 480, and whether the instruments meet all of the requirements for equity classification under ASC 815, including whether the instruments are indexed to the Company’s own shares of common stock and whether the instrument holders could potentially require “net cash settlement” in a circumstance outside of the Company’s control, among other conditions for equity classification. This assessment, which requires the use of professional judgment, is conducted at the time of warrant issuance and as of each subsequent quarterly period end date while the instruments are outstanding. As discussed in Note 8 to the financial statements, the Company determined that upon review of the warrant agreements, the public warrants and private placement warrants issued pursuant to the warrant agreements qualify for equity accounting treatment.


Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative