Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

We are currently investigating and, if such investigation warrants, looking to acquire or merge with a target company or business seeking the perceived advantages of being a publicly held corporation. We are an emerging growth company (EGC) that is exempt from certain financial disclosure and governance requirements for up to five years as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the JOBS Act), that eases restrictions on the sale of securities; and increases the number of shareholders a company must have before becoming subject to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commissions (SEC’s) reporting and disclosure rules (See Emerging Growth Companies section above). Our principal business objective for the next 12 months and beyond such time will be to achieve long-term growth potential through a combination with a business rather than immediate, short-term earnings. We will not restrict our potential candidate target companies to any specific business, industry or geographical location and, thus, may acquire any type of business.

The risks we may face if the target business we may intend to merge with is financially unstable include but are not limited to difficulty in achieving future financing, continuing operations, bankruptcy, litigation, and increasing business operations on a limited or no budget.

We, the registrant, will not pay a cash finder’s fee for the consummation of any business acquisition the Company makes pursuant to its current business plan. Additionally, at this time we do not plan to issue securities as a finder’s fee. 

We do not currently engage in any business activities that provide substantial cash flow. The costs of investigating and analyzing business combinations for the next 12 months and beyond such time will be paid with money in our treasury or with additional amounts, as necessary, to be loaned to or invested in us by our management or other potential investors.

At this time, we are entirely reliant upon cash contributions made by our sole officer and director to pay for any and all expenses.

During the next 12 months we anticipate incurring costs related to:

(i) filing of Exchange Act reports (legal, accounting and auditing fees) in the amount of approximately $200,000; and

(ii) costs relating to consummating an acquisition in the amount of approximately $100,000 to pay for legal fees and audit fees. 

We believe we will be able to meet the costs of filing Exchange Act reports during the next 12 months through use of funds to be loaned to or invested in us by Mr. Ryohei Uetaki, our sole officer and director. However, there is no guarantee that such additional funds will be made available to us or on terms that are favorable to us. If we enter into a business combination with a target entity, we will require the target company to pay the acquisition related fees and expenses as a condition precedent to such an agreement. To date, we have had no discussions with our sole officer and director, Mr. Ryohei Uetaki, regarding funding and no funding commitment for future expenses has been obtained. If in the future we need funds to pay expenses, we will consider these and other yet to be identified options for raising funds and/or paying expenses. Obviously, if Mr. Uetaki, does not loan to or invest sufficient funds in us, then we will not be able to meet our SEC reporting obligations and will not be able to attract a private company with which to combine.

We have negative working capital, a stockholder deficit, and have no source of revenues. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Going forward, we will be devoting our efforts to locating merger candidates. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to develop additional sources of capital, locate and complete a merger with another company, and ultimately, achieve profitable operations.

The Company may consider a business which has recently commenced operations, is in need of additional funds for expansion into new products or markets, is seeking to develop a new product or service, or is an established business which may be experiencing financial or operating difficulties and is in need of additional capital. Our management believes that the public company status that results from a combination with the Company will provide such company greater access to the capital markets, increase its visibility in the investment community, and offer the opportunity to utilize its stock to make acquisitions. However, there is no assurance that the Company will have greater access to capital due to its public company status, and therefore a business combination with an operating company in need of additional capital may expose the Company to additional risks and challenges. In the alternative, a business combination may involve the acquisition of, or merger with, a company which does not need substantial additional capital, but which desires to establish a public trading market for its shares, while avoiding, among other things, the time delays, significant expense, and loss of voting control which may occur in a public offering.

\- 5 -

We have, and will continue to have, no capital with which to provide the owners of business entities with any cash or other assets. However, we offer owners of target businesses the opportunity to acquire a controlling ownership interest in a reporting company without the time required to become a reporting company by other means. Nevertheless, upon affecting an acquisition or merger with us, there will be costs and time required by the target business to provide comprehensive business and financial disclosure, such as the terms of the transaction and a description of the business and management of the target business, among other things, and will include audited consolidated financial statements of the Company giving effect to the business combination, as part of a filing on Form 8-K.

Our sole officer and director has not had any preliminary contact or discussions with any representative of any other entity regarding a business combination with us. Any target business that is selected may be a financially unstable company or an entity in its early stages of development or growth, including entities without established records of sales or earnings. In that event, we will be subject to numerous risks inherent in the business and operations of financially unstable and early stage or potential emerging growth companies. In addition, we may affect a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, and, although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain or assess all significant risks.

Our management anticipates that we will likely be able to affect only one business combination, due primarily to our limited financing. This lack of diversification should be considered a substantial risk in investing in us, because it will not permit us to offset potential losses from one venture against gains from another.

Current economic and financial conditions are volatile and affect the selection of a business combination and increase the complex ability of the Company’s goals. Business and consumer concerns over the economy, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. financial markets and the national debt have contributed to this volatility. These factors, combined with declining and failing businesses, reduced consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have caused a global slowdown. We cannot accurately predict how long these current economic conditions will persist; whether the economy will deteriorate further and how we will be affected.

Because of general economic conditions, rapid technological advances being made in some industries, and shortages of available capital, our management believes that there are the perceived benefits of becoming a publicly traded corporation. Such perceived benefits of becoming a publicly traded corporation include, among other things, facilitating or improving the terms on which additional equity financing may be obtained, providing liquidity for the principals of and investors in a business, creating a means for providing incentive stock options or similar benefits to key employees, and offering greater flexibility in structuring acquisitions, joint ventures and the like through the issuance of stock. Potentially available business combinations may occur in many different industries and at various stages of development, all of which will make the task of comparative investigation and analysis of such business opportunities extremely difficult and complex.

We intend to search for a target business combination by contacting various sources including, but not limited to, our affiliates, lenders, investment banking firms, private equity funds, financial advisors and similar persons, accounting firms and attorneys notwithstanding us contacting any business directly. The approximate number of persons or entities that will be contacted is unknown and dependent on whether any opportunities are presented by the sources that we contact. However, there is no assurance that we will locate a target company for a business combination.

Results of Operations

We generated no revenue for the years ended July 31, 2024, and 2023. Our operating expenses for the years ended July 31, 2024, and 2023 were $245,274 and $11,587, respectively. Operating expenses were solely professional fees in nature. Our net loss for the years ended July 31, 2024 and 2023 was $245,274 and $11,587, respectively.

Liquidity and Capital Resources.

The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. However, as mentioned in the paragraphs above, as of July 31, 2024, we generated no revenue. Our working capital deficit was $249,573 and our accumulated deficit was $266,456. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent auditor’s report accompanying our July 31, 2024 and 2023 audited financial statements contains an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Management plans to fund operating expenses with borrowings from the related party. There is no assurance that the management’s plan will be successful.

During the years ended July 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company’s cash provided by (used in) operating activities was immaterial as the operating expenses were mostly paid by the related parties of the Company. The Company had cash provided by financing activities of $300 during the year ended July 31, 2024 due to proceeds from a related party loan. There were no cash flows from financing activities during the year ended July 31, 2023. The Company did not have any cash flows from investing activities for both years.

We have no known demands or commitments and are not aware of any events or uncertainties as of July 31, 2024 that will result in or that are reasonably likely to materially increase or decrease our current liquidity.

We had no material commitments for capital expenditures as of July 31, 2024.

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements.

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

We prepare our financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make certain estimates and apply judgments. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes to be important at the time the financial statements are prepared. Due to the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain, materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. On a regular basis, we review our critical accounting policies and how they are applied in the preparation of our financial statements. While we believe that the historical experience, current trends and other factors considered support the preparation of our financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP, actual results could differ from our estimates and such differences could be material. See Note 2 of the Notes to Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a summary of significant accounting policies and the effect on our financial statements.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative