Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) summarizes the significant factors affecting the operating results, financial condition, liquidity and capital resources, and cash flows of our Company for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by, our consolidated financial statements, the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements and other financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the "Annual Report"). Except for historical information, the matters discussed in this MD&A contain various forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions and other important factors and are based upon judgments concerning various factors beyond our control. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those discussed under “Item 1A - Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report, any of which could cause the Company’s actual results, performance or achievements, or industry results, to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update such statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they are made. Additionally, you should refer to the “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” References within this MD&A to the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us,” refer to 5E Advanced Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

Overview

5E Advanced Materials, Inc. is focused on becoming a vertically integrated global leader and supplier of specialty boron and advanced boron derivative materials whose mission is to enable decarbonization, increase food security, and ensure domestic supply of critical materials. We hold 100% of the rights through ownership in the Project through our wholly owned subsidiary 5E Boron Americas LLC. Our Project is underpinned by a mineral resource that includes boron and lithium, with the boron being contained in a conventional boron mineral known as colemanite. In 2022, our facility was designated as Critical Infrastructure by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency. Our vision is to safely process boric acid and lithium carbonate through sustainable best practices to enable decarbonization, food security and domestic supply surety.

Recent Developments

Leadership Changes

Officer Transitions

On June 3, 2024, Susan Brennan resigned as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and as a director of the Board, effective as of June 3, 2024 (the “Effective Date”). Also on June 3, 2024, the Board appointed Paul Weibel, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and principal executive officer, effective as of the Effective Date.

The Board also appointed Joshua Malm, the Company’s Interim Chief Accounting Officer, as the Company’s Interim Chief Financial Officer and principal financial officer and principal accounting officer, effective as of the Effective Date.

Director Changes

On June 24, 2024, Barry Dick was elected at our 2023 Annual General Meeting to serve on the Company’s Board. On June 30, 2024, Stephen Hunt resigned from the Board, and effective July 1, 2024, Bryn Jones was appointed to the Board.

2024 Highlights and Future Considerations

Operational Highlights

Commencement of Mining Operations, First Production of Boric Acid and Commencement of Customer Qualification Program

The Company believes that the commencement of commercial operations, first production of boric acid and commencement of customer qualification represents a significant strategic step forward in the Company’s development and mission.

On January 1, 2024, we began well-field injection under our Underground Injection Control permit to begin extracting valuable minerals from the Project. As anticipated, the wellfield took approximately one month for initial conditioning to take place, and in late January, utilizing all four of our production wells, we sent Pregnant Leach Solution (“PLS”) to a Louisiana based lab whereby the lab produced commercial grade boric acid. During March 2024, an independent third-party inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry analysis confirmed the commercial grade boric acid produced in the Louisiana lab. During the first three months of mining operations,

over 50,000 gallons of PLS were accumulated and we achieved an average head grade of 5.5% and the Small-Scale Facility (“SSF”) commenced production in April 2024 after final electrical work and commissioning was completed in March 2024.

With the first production batch of boric acid from the SSF complete, we continued to refine operating processes such as filtering, drying and bagging parameters for boric acid. During July 2024, we shipped samples of boric acid to multiple potential customers for them to begin customer qualification against their customer established qualification criteria. To meet specification, boric acid requires little to no moisture or impurities, as well as a specific particle size. With delivery of samples to certain customers complete, we continue to refine the production process to meet customer specification for larger amounts of product. Customers currently in the qualification program include leading global materials science, consumer electronics, fiber optics, defense and specialty pharmaceutical glass companies which have a growing need to procure boric acid supply for their applications. This key advancement is expected to facilitate further commercial discussion and form the foundation for off-take and supply agreements. Upon successful feedback from customers that the product meets their specifications, we then plan to deliver larger volumes of boric acid from the SSF, to the customer production facilities for product validation in a live manufacturing environment. We are currently targeting delivering up to 100 tons of boric acid to potential customers for testing during the fall of 2024.

The SSF is designed to initially produce up to 2,000 short tons of boric acid annually and targets initial production of lithium carbonate, with optionality built in to scale up to a run rate of 9,000 short tons and commensurate increased lithium production with an incremental capital investment. Our operations team is currently working towards our next production target of three short tons of boric acid per day while we optimize product quality and production rates.

The initial high-quality run-of-mine head grade of boric acid provides validation of our initial operational assumptions which we hope will facilitate discussions with stakeholders around funding options for Phase 1 of the proposed commercial facility and securing commercial contracts for our future products.

Commercial Facility and Wellfield Design Optimization

Our current technical report summary calls for a mine plan with 841 vertical wells. Initial recovery data and mine planning indicates that utilizing horizontal wells can increase solution flow rates, resource contact, and reduce the quantity of wells by a factor of up to ten, which could meaningfully reduce our anticipated capital expenditures. As it relates to the operation of the SSF, head grade equates to the quantity of boron in solution that is fed into the processing facility for crystallization. Based on historical reports from operations in the 1980s, our predecessor parent company, American Pacific Borates, estimated head grade of 3.7%. Through the first six months of operation, actual head grade has consistently ranged between 5.5% and 6.0%, with an average of 9,822ppm boron. The outperformance of head grade is attributed to our process change to inject the mining solution into the deposit at 140 degrees Fahrenheit where higher temperature drives a better head grade.

Our current technical report summary assumes a head grade of 7.0% and we remain on track to achieve this level or better. After processing boric acid, the remaining solution includes deleterious elements, calcium, water, and 1.5% hydrochloric acid. Through recirculation of the remaining solution, the 7.0% head grade or higher is expected to be achieved. As head grade increases, the process requires less energy for crystallization which would reduce operating costs. We are assessing the impact and feasibility of increasing the temperature above 140 degrees such that operating costs are further reduced with less energy consumption.

Colemanite is a calcium-based deposit, and as boron is extracted, the process results in a calcium biproduct. Our current technical report summary anticipates a gypsum biproduct which is not expected to add meaningful value. Other value-added biproducts such as calcium chloride and magnesium hydroxide are currently being assessed, in addition to the anticipated lithium stream. Magnesium is classified as a critical mineral according to the United States Geological Survey and production of magnesium hydroxide could be accretive to cash costs and further reduce operating costs. With production rates expected to ramp, line of sight on the next phase of customer qualification, and the optimization work currently in process near completion, the Company will prioritize its FEL-2 engineering program with targeted completion in early 2025. Included in the scope of the FEL-2 program is a capital estimate of plus or minus 25% for the 90,000 short ton per annum facility, which will drive an updated technical report summary and PFS.

Fluor Corporation Selected as EPC for FEL-2

We selected Fluor Corporation (“Fluor”) as our EPC services provider. The initial scope of Fluor will be to lead FEL-2 which will directly feed into the upgrading of the Company’s current S-K 1300 technical document into a PFS upon completion.

We believe the selection of Fluor, a world-class EPC firm with an extensive track record, will serve to be invaluable to us throughout our next phase of execution. We expect the work being conducted by Fluor will play an important role in ultimately getting our 5E Boron Americas Complex to the planned PFS-level study.

Financing Highlights

Out-of-Court Restructuring

Beginning in fiscal year 2023, we worked to identify appropriate funding solutions to address the Company’s liquidity profile. With the EPA approval still an open item, public market capital providers were reluctant to invest. As time progressed, even with cost saving measures implemented, the Company approached the then in force $10 million liquidity covenant (as discussed within Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements) and management therefore began discussions with its lender. The combination of the EPA status, and the approaching liquidity floor required a commercial resolution. On November 9, 2023, we entered into a standstill agreement (the "Standstill Agreement") with Bluescape Special Situations IV (“Bluescape”), Alter Domus (US) LLC (the “Collateral Agent”), Ascend Global Investment Fund SPC for and on behalf of Strategic SP (“Ascend”), and Mayfair Ventures Pte Ltd in connection with our 4.50% senior secured convertible notes issued on August 26, 2022 (the “Original Notes”). Pursuant to the Standstill Agreement, Bluescape and the Collateral Agent agreed to not exercise their respective rights, remedies, powers, privileges, and defenses under the Note Purchase Agreement, dated August 11, 2022 (the “Note Purchase Agreement”) with respect to the occurrence of any default or event of default, and all parties to the Standstill Agreement agreed to forbear from instituting or pursuing legal action with respect to the Original Notes. The Standstill Agreement also temporarily allowed us to go below the then in force cash covenant of $10 million (as discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements).

On December 1, 2023, we extended the effectiveness of the Standstill Agreement from December 1, 2023 to December 5, 2023 at which point we entered into a Restructuring Support Agreement (the “Restructuring Support Agreement”) with Bluescape, the Collateral Agent, and Ascend in connection with certain restructuring transactions with respect to our capital structure, including our Original Notes. Pursuant to the Restructuring Support Agreement, the parties agreed to implement the restructuring transactions either as an out-of-court restructuring (the “Out-of-Court Restructuring”) or an in-court restructuring under voluntary pre-packaged cases under chapter 11 of title 11 of the United States Code in a U.S. Bankruptcy Court.

On January 12, 2024, we held a special meeting of stockholders where our stockholders approved the Out-of-Court Restructuring, including (i) an amendment to our certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of the Company’s common stock, par value $0.01 (the “Common Stock”) from 180,000,000 to 360,000,000, (ii) the issuance of up to $35 million of Common Stock at a price of $1.025 per share (the “Securities Offering”) to Ascend and Bluescape, if Bluescape decided to exercise its option to participate in the Securities Offering, and (iii) the issuance of additional shares of the Company’s Common Stock upon conversion of the Original Notes in connection with an amendment to the Note Purchase Agreement.

On January 18, 2024, pursuant to a subscription agreement with Ascend, dated December 5, 2023 and an amended and restated subscription agreement with 5ECAP LLC (“5ECAP”), dated January 18, 2024 (the “5ECAP Subscription Agreement”), we issued (i) 5,365,854 shares of Common Stock to Ascend at a price of $1.025 per share, which shares included the placement fee to Ascend in shares of Common Stock and (ii) 5,365,854 shares of Common Stock to 5ECAP at a price of $1.025 per share, which shares included the placement fee to 5ECAP in shares of Common Stock.

On January 18, 2024, in connection with the Out-of-Court Restructuring, we entered into an amended and restated note purchase agreement (the “January 2024 Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement”) with Bluescape, Ascend, and Meridian Investments Corporation (“Meridian”) related to the Original Notes. Pursuant to such agreement, beginning on January 18, 2024, the Original Notes bear interest at a rate of 4.50% per annum, payable semi-annually, or 10.00% per annum if we elect to pay such interest through the delivery of additional Original Notes and are convertible into a maximum of 66,261,621 shares of Common Stock at a conversion rate of 650.4065 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Original Notes (the “Conversion Rate”), which includes accrued interest paid-in-kind through maturity. The Original Notes are secured by substantially all of our assets and mature on August 15, 2028.

As part of the January 2024 Amended and Restated Note Purchase agreement, the minimum cash condition was waived through June 28, 2024, with a reduction in the covenant thereafter from $10 million to $7.5 million. On April 28, 2024, as part of Amendment No. 1 to the January 2024 Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement, the waiver of the minimum cash condition was further extended through December 31, 2024 (as discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements).

On January 29, 2024, pursuant to the 5ECAP Subscription Agreement, and also in connection with the Out-of-Court Restructuring, the Company issued an additional 8,317,074 shares of Common Stock to 5ECAP at a price of $1.025 per share.

June 2024 Senior Secured Convertible Notes

On June 11, 2024, pursuant to an amended and restated note purchase agreement (the “May 2024 Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement,” and, collectively with the Note Purchase Agreement and January 2024 Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement, the “Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement”), we issued and sold new senior secured convertible notes in an aggregate principal amount of $6.0 million (the “June 2024 Notes” and, collectively with the Original Notes, the “Notes”), comprised of $3.0 million of June 2024 Notes to each of Bluescape and Ascend. Following the issuance and sale, Ascend assigned $1.5 million of its June 2024 Notes to Meridian.

The June 2024 Notes, which were issued in substantially the same form as the Original Notes, were initially convertible at a rate of 650.4065 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (the “Conversion Rate”), subject to adjustment in accordance with the terms of the Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement as defined below. The June 2024 Notes are secured by substantially all of our assets and mature on August 15, 2028.

The Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement provides that the Conversion Rate applicable to the June 2024 Notes is subject to adjustment if, on or prior to December 31, 2024, we sell Common Stock or any other equity-linked securities at an effective price per share that is less than the conversion price then in effect, subject to certain exemptions (a “Degressive Issuance”). In the event of a Degressive Issuance, the Conversion Rate applicable to the June 2024 Notes will be adjusted based on the weighted average issuance price of the securities sold in such Degressive Issuance, as set forth in the Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement, we will not be permitted to effect any further Degressive Issuance that would result in an adjustment to the Adjusted Conversion Rate that requires the approval of our stockholders pursuant to the listing standards of Nasdaq, unless we have obtained such stockholder approval before such Degressive Issuance.

As further discussed below, on August 27, 2024 we completed an offering of securities that constituted a Degressive Issuance and resulted in an adjustment to the conversion rate applicable only to the June 2024 Notes from 650.4065 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of June 2024 Notes to 692.7990 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of June 2024 Notes (the “Adjusted Conversion Rate”). As a result of the Adjusted Conversion Rate, the June 2024 Notes are convertible into an aggregate of up to 6,252,366 shares of Common Stock, assuming all accrued interest is paid-in-kind through maturity.

The Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement also modifies an existing provision applicable to the Original Notes, and subsequently applies to the June 2024 Notes, that provides for certain adjustments to the Conversion Rate and Adjusted Conversion Rate, as applicable, to increase the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes (the “Additional Shares”) in the event of certain change of control transactions or other events specified in the Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement (a “Make-Whole Fundamental Change”).

Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement, the Conversion Rate and Adjusted Conversion Rate, as applicable, will be increased by up to 325.2033 Additional Shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, based on the timing of the Make-Whole Fundamental Change and the trading price of the Common Stock at such time or the cash received by holders of the Common Stock in connection with such Make-Whole Fundamental Change, as applicable, as further described in the Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement (the “Make-Whole Adjustment”). The Make-Whole Adjustment may result in the issuance of a maximum of 36,065,709 Additional Shares if a Make-Whole Fundamental Change were to occur.

August 2024 Debt Commitment and Equity Offering

On August 25, 2024, we entered into commitment letters (the “Debt Commitment Letters”) with Bluescape and Ascend (together, the “Commitment Parties”), pursuant to which each of the Commitment Parties has agreed to purchase $3.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's secured convertible promissory notes (the “September 2024 Notes”) in a private placement, subject to certain terms and conditions (the “Debt Financing”). The funding of the Debt Financing pursuant to the Debt Commitment Letters is contingent on the satisfaction of certain conditions and the amendment of the Company’s existing Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement. The September 2024 Notes are expected to be substantially identical to the Company’s outstanding Notes, and the conversion price applicable to the September 2024 Notes is expected to be $0.9375. The Debt Commitment Letters will terminate on September 17, 2024 if the Debt Financing has not been consummated before such date.

On August 27, 2024, we completed an offering (the “August 2024 Offering”) of (i) 5,333,333 shares (the “Shares”) of our Common Stock, (ii) Series A warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of up to 5,333,333 shares of Common Stock (the “Series A Warrants”) and (iii) Series B warrants to purchase an aggregate of 5,333,333 shares of Common Stock (the “Series B Warrants”, and collectively with the Series A Warrants, the “Warrants”). The Shares and Warrants were offered and sold on a combined basis for consideration equating to $0.75 for one Share and two Warrants. The exercise price for each of the Warrants is $0.7981 per share.

The Series A Warrants and the Series B Warrants are initially exercisable on February 27, 2025. The Series A Warrants will expire on February 27, 2030 and the Series B Warrants will expire on February 27, 2027. The Warrants contain standard adjustments to the exercise price including for stock splits, stock dividends, rights offerings and pro rata distributions. The Warrants also include certain rights upon the occurrence of a “fundamental transaction” (as described in the Warrants), including the right of the holder thereof to receive from the Company or a successor entity the same type or form of consideration (and in the same proportion) that is being offered and paid to the holders of Common Stock in such fundamental transaction in the amount of the Black Scholes value (as described in the Warrants) of the unexercised portion of the Warrant on the date of the consummation of such fundamental transaction. The Warrants include cashless exercise rights to the extent the resale of the shares of Common Stock underlying the Warrants is not registered under the Securities Act.

Additionally, in connection with the August 2024 Offering, we agreed not to issue any shares of Common Stock (or securities exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock) for a period of 90 days following the closing of the offering, or to enter into any “variable rate transactions” for one year following the closing of the offering.

The gross proceeds to us for the August 2024 Offering is approximately $4.0 million before deducting the placement agent’s fees and other offering expenses payable by us.

Financing Transactions — Liquidity Considerations

Although the equity offerings associated with our Out-of-Court Restructuring and issuance of June 2024 Notes improved our cash position by providing $21.3 million of net proceeds after issuance costs and fees to the Company, and the August 2024 Offering and anticipated September 2024 Notes will further improve our cash position by providing approximately $10 million of gross proceeds on a combined basis before deducting issuance costs and fees to the Company, and we continue to operate under a business plan that includes reductions in certain spending, we will need additional financing in order to continue as a going concern and maintain a cash balance in excess of the $7.5 million minimum cash covenant of the Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement (as discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). An event of default under the Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement would cause the Notes balance outstanding to become immediately due and payable, for which we would not have the resources to repay without additional financing. The receipt of potential funding cannot be considered probable at this time because these plans are not entirely within management's control as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. Therefore, there exists substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern for a period of one year after the date that this Annual Report is issued. Even if additional financing is successfully consummated, including the September 2024 Notes, available liquidity may still not be sufficient to eliminate the aforementioned substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Refer to the "Going Concern" discussion within Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for more information.

Funding Opportunities

During March 2024, we submitted a request for proposal response to the U.S. Department of Energy for a grant to fund research to enhance our lithium extraction work. Should we receive an award from this submission, funding is aimed towards increasing the amount of lithium carbonate that we are able to extract, potentially increasing lithium yields to improve project economics. Additionally, we continue to progress boron awareness with multiple federal agencies on the back of the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2024, requesting a study into boron supply chains.

Results of Operations

The following table summarizes our results of operations for the periods presented.

* Represents a percentage change of greater than +/- 300%

Project expenses

Project expenses include drilling, plug and abandonment, site-preparation, engineering, consumables, testing and sampling, hydrology, permits, surveys, and other expenses associated with further progressing our Project. For the year ended June 30, 2024, Project expenses decreased $3.4 million, or 34%, versus the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to (i) a reduction in expenses incurred relating to our plug and abandonment program ($5.0 million) which occurred primarily during the first half of fiscal year 2023 and was related to closing historic wells required by our permits ahead of operating the SSF, (ii) reduced expenses incurred for engineering and technical reports that were not eligible for capitalization as construction in progress ($0.3 million), and (iii) reduced site-related costs ($0.1 million). These decreases were partially offset by increased well-field development costs ($1.4 million), and EPA compliance costs ($0.7 million).

General and administrative expenses

General and administrative expenses include professional fees, costs associated with marketing, on-going SEC and public company costs, public relations, rent, salaries, share-based compensation and other expenses. Currently, all salaries and benefits for the entire organization are reported in general and administrative expenses. For the year ended June 30, 2024, general and administrative expenses decreased $1.4 million, or 5%, versus the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to (i) a decrease in share-based compensation costs ($1.5 million), (ii) a decrease in costs related to marketing activities ($0.9 million), and (iii) a decrease in travel costs ($0.4 million). These decreases were partially offset by increases in costs associated with (i) increased cash bonus incentives ($1.0 million) which primarily relate to an employee retention program implemented as part of the December 2023 Restructuring Support Agreement, and (ii) increased state licensing and filing fees ($0.4 million).

Research and development

Research and development expense includes costs incurred under research agreements with Georgetown University and Boston College that aim to enhance the performance of permanent magnets through increased use of boron. Both engagements were completed during the second fiscal quarter of 2024. For the year ended June 30, 2024, research and development expenses decreased $217 thousand, or 83%, versus the prior year. The decrease was attributable to the completion of the engagements during the second fiscal quarter of 2024.

Impairment

During the year ended June 30, 2023, we elected not to renew our mineral lease with Elementis Specialties, Inc., which expired on March 31, 2023, resulting in the recognition of approximately $0.9 million of related impairment expense. There was no comparable impairment expense in the year ended June 30, 2024.

Depreciation and amortization expense

Depreciation and amortization relates to use of our SSF, injection and recovery wells, owned or leased vehicles, buildings and equipment and the amortization of our asset retirement obligations. For the year ended June 30, 2024, depreciation and amortization expense increased $5.0 million versus the year ended 2023. This increase was primarily due to placing the SSF and its related injection and recovery wells, facilities and equipment into service as of April 1, 2024 corresponding with the commencement of commercial operations.

Interest income

Interest income is derived from the investment of our excess cash and cash equivalents in short-term (original maturities of three months or less) investments of highly liquid treasury bills and certificates of deposit beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2023 and corresponding with the issuance of the Original Notes. For the year ended June 30, 2024, interest income decreased $895 thousand or 78% versus the year ended 2023. Such decrease corresponds to a decrease in our average cash and cash equivalent balance between the periods.

Other income

Other income is derived from the third-party use of our hydrology wells and the sale of scrap and other materials at the Project. For the year ended June 30, 2024, other income decreased $55 thousand, or 89% versus the prior year. The decrease primarily relates to reduced third-party use of our hydrology wells compared to the prior year.

Loss on extinguishment of debt

The loss on extinguishment of debt incurred for the year ended June 30, 2024 resulted from the modification of the terms of our Original Notes contained in the January 2024 Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement. The modified terms of the Original Notes (as discussed within Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements) were evaluated and determined to be representative of an in-substance extinguishment of the Original Notes and establishment of new debt, for accounting purposes, primarily due to the significance of the changes to the terms of the conversion features. As a result, we wrote-off the remaining principal, accrued interest and unamortized discount and debt issuance costs associated with the prior debt with an aggregate value of $44.2 million, and recognized the modified debt at its fair value of $65.2 million upon execution of the January 2024 Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement. The difference in value between the prior debt and the modified debt resulted in a loss on extinguishment of debt of $21.0 million.

Derivative gain

Derivative gain (loss) results from changes in the fair value of the embedded conversion features relating to degressive issuance provisions contained in the Note Purchase Agreement and Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement that are required to be bifurcated and accounted for separately as stand-alone derivative instruments (as discussed within Note 7 and Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements). The unrealized gain during the year ended June 30, 2023, was primarily due to the decrease in our stock price to $11.63 on November 26, 2022, the date the conversion feature expired and derivative accounting was terminated for our Original Notes, from $15.83 on August 26, 2022, the inception date of the Original Notes and the date derivative accounting commenced. The expiration of the conversion feature associated with the Original Notes resulted in the transfer of the fair value of the convertible note derivative at expiration to additional paid-in capital.

The unrealized derivative gain (loss) during the year ended June 30, 2024, was primarily due to the decrease in our stock price to $1.21 on June 30, 2024, the end of the reporting period, from $1.44 on June 11, 2024, the inception date for the June 2024 Notes and the date derivative accounting commenced with respect to the Degressive Issuance feature related to the June 2024 Notes. Future changes in the fair value of the embedded conversion feature prior to its expiration will affect future net income, but will not have any effect on cash flows. On December 31, 2024, the conversion feature associated with the June 2024 Notes that results in separate accounting will expire and the fair value of such derivative, if any, will be transferred to additional paid-in capital on such date.

Interest expense

Interest expense primarily relates to interest expense incurred on the Notes, as amended, and is net of amounts capitalized to construction-in-progress. Prior to the execution of the January 2024 Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement, the Original Notes accrued interest at a rate of 6% when interest was paid-in-kind through the issuance of additional notes. Subsequent to the January 2024 Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement, the Original Notes accrue interest at a rate of 10% when interest is paid-in-kind through the issuance of additional notes, with such rate also applying to the June 2024 Notes issued on June 11, 2024. We also recognize interest expense for the amortization of debt issuance costs and the amortization of debt discounts on the Notes. For the year ended June 30, 2024, interest expense decreased $655 thousand or 10% versus the comparable period in fiscal year 2023. This decrease was due to (i) the write-off of the remaining unamortized debt discount (established August 26, 2022) and corresponding

elimination of the amortization of such discount in connection with the accounting for the January 2024 Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement, which results in a shorter period of amortization expense in the current period compared to the prior period ($1.4 million reduction in interest expense), and (ii) additional interest being capitalized between periods due to the combined effect of a higher interest rate associated with our modified debt, an increase in our average construction-in-progress balance between periods and a longer period of capitalization in the current period versus the comparative period ($1.2 million reduction in interest expense). These decreases in interest expense were offset to a lesser extent by the effects of (i) interest accruing at 10% under the terms of our January 2024 Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement compared to 6% under our prior agreement, (ii) accruing additional interest on $1.8 million and $2.1 million of interest that was paid-in-kind during August of 2023 and February of 2024, respectively, and (iii) interest expense accruing on the $6 million of June 2024 Notes issued on June 11, 2024 (for a combined impact of $2.0 million increase in interest expense).

Other expense

Other expense relates to losses on foreign currency transactions and certain non-income related taxes. For the year ended June 30, 2024, other expense decreased $6 thousand, or 40%, versus the prior year. The decrease primarily relates to reduced foreign currency transaction losses compared to the prior year.

Income tax expense

We did not have any income tax expense or benefit for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, as we have recorded a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax asset.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

As of June 30, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of $4.9 million and a working capital deficit of $2.9 million compared to $20.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and a working capital surplus of $13.3 million as of June 30, 2023. Our predominant source of cash has been generated through equity financing from issuances of our common stock and equity-linked securities, including our Notes. Since inception, we have not generated revenues, and as such, have relied on equity financing and equity-linked instruments to fund our operating and investing activities. We maintain the majority of our cash and cash equivalents in accounts with major U.S. and multi-national financial institutions, and our deposits at certain of these institutions may exceed insured limits. Market conditions can impact the viability of these institutions.

In August 2022, we executed a $60 million private placement of senior secured convertible notes to complete construction and commissioning of our SSF, fund operation of our SSF, and general corporate purposes. In January 2024, as part of the Out-of-Court Restructuring, we completed two closings of a private placement of our Common Stock which resulted in approximately $15.8 million of proceeds to the Company, after recognition of the related costs and fees, to strengthen our balance sheet and to help fund mining and SSF operations. Also in January 2024, and also as part of our Out-of-Court Restructuring, we executed the January 2024 Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement which modified certain terms of our Original Notes (refer to the Out-of-Court Restructuring discussion under the heading of 2024 Highlights and Future Considerations above). The January 2024 Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement did not provide incremental capital to the Company and resulted in us incurring $2.6 million of related legal and accounting fees. In May 2024, we executed the May 2024 Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement which resulted in the issuance of an additional $6 million of senior secured convertible notes which resulted in approximately $5.5 million of net proceeds to the Company during June 2024, after recognition of the related costs and fees (refer to the June 2024 Senior Secured Convertible Notes discussion under the heading of 2024 Highlights and Future Considerations above). During August 2024, we entered into Debt Commitment Letters with Commitment Parties, pursuant to which the Commitment Parties agreed to purchase $6.0 million aggregate principal amount of our secured convertible promissory notes in a private placement that is anticipated to close before September 17, 2024. Also during August 2024, we completed the August 2024 Offering of shares of Common Stock and Warrants that resulted in gross proceeds to us of approximately $4.0 million, before the recognition of the related costs and fees. The proceeds anticipated from the Debt Commitment Letters and August 2024 Offering will be used by us to advance our FEL-2 engineering program towards completion while providing working capital to continue to operate our SSF and progressing our customer qualification program. For additional details on each of these August 2024 transactions, refer to the August 2024 Debt Commitment and Equity Offering discussion under the heading of 2024 Highlights and Future Considerations above.

A summary of our cash flows for the years ended June 30 follows.

Cash Flows Used For Operating Activities

Net cash used in operating activities for each of the above periods was primarily the result of general and administrative costs, costs incurred in furthering the Project, preparing us for the operation of the SSF, and operating costs of the SSF after commercial operations commenced on April 1, 2024. During the year ended June 30, 2024, we used $26.9 million of cash for operating activities, a decrease of $3.8 million or 12% compared to the previous year. The decrease in cash used in operations during the current period primarily results from decreases in Project expenses in 2024 versus the prior year (refer to the discussion of year-over-year changes in Project expenses above for additional details).

Cash Flows Used For Investing Activities

Our cash flows used for investing activities primarily relate to equipment purchases, engineering, and the construction of our SSF. During the year ended June 30, 2024, we used $7.2 million of cash for investing activities, a decrease of $32.1 million or 82% compared to the previous year. During fiscal year 2023, a significant portion of the SSF was constructed while these construction activities were reduced in fiscal year 2024 as the SSF approach final commissioning and placement into operation. Net cash used in investing activities for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023 also included the redemption of $776 thousand of reclamation bonds required by the EPA in exchange for putting surety bonds in place.

Cash Flows From Financing Activities

Our cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to equity and equity-linked financing transactions to fund our business and operations. Cash flows provided by financing activities for the year ended June 30, 2024 were the result of (i) $15.8 million of proceeds received from two closings of a private placement of our Common Stock in January of 2024, after recognition of the related costs and fees, where we issued an aggregate of 19,048,782 shares of our Common Stock, and (ii) $5.5 million of proceeds received from the issuance of June 2024 Notes, after recognition of the related costs and fees. These cash inflows from financing activities were offset by $2.6 million of cash used to pay legal and accounting fees associated with the January 2024 Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement that modified certain terms of our Original Notes but did not result in any financing cash inflows for the Company.

Cash flows provided by financing activities during the year ended 2023 were primarily the result of $55.8 million received from the issuance of the Original Notes in August 2022, net of debt issuance costs, and proceeds received from the exercise of stock options.

Future Capital Requirements

Over the next 12 months we have the following plans that will require additional capital:

•

Operate the SSF;

•

Progress FEL-2, FEL-3, and detail engineering and procure long lead item equipment, specifically our crystallization units;

•

Optimize well-field design in an effort to reduce future mining capital and operational expenditure through various drilling techniques such as directional, horizontal and radial drilling; 

•

Pursue and optimize infrastructure capital expenditures for our larger-scale facility which could include expansion of non-potable water resources, upgrading shore power, connection to a natural gas network, and constructing new access roads into and out of the location for our larger-scale facility; and

•

Further define our advanced materials strategy with consideration to engineering and repurposing our SSF to produce boron advanced materials once sufficient data has been obtained for flow sheet optimization and the production of product for customer qualification.

Although the Out-of-Court Restructuring transaction, the issuance of June 2024 Notes, and August 2024 Offering, each discussed above, improved our cash position, and we continue to operate under a business plan that includes reductions in certain spending, we will need additional financing in order to continue as a going concern and maintain a cash balance in excess of the $7.5 million

minimum cash covenant contained in the Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement. Absent additional financing as outlined above, we may no longer be able to meet our ongoing obligations, continue operations or achieve the milestones outlined above. If we are not able to secure additional financing cash flows and our cash balance falls below $7.5 million after December 31, 2024, an event of default under the Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement would occur if not cured after 30 days. An event of default would cause our Notes balance outstanding to become immediately due and payable, for which we would not have the resources to repay without additional financing.

We intend to explore different potential financing strategies to help support the growth of our business and execution of our business plan, including equity or debt financing, government funding or grants, private capital, royalty agreements or customer prepayments, or other strategic alliances with third parties. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to secure additional financing on adequate terms, in a timely manner, or at all.

The receipt of potential funding, including those subject of the Debt Commitment Letters discussed above, cannot be considered probable at this time because these plans are not entirely within management's control as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. Therefore, there exists substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern for a period of one year after the date that these financial statements are issued. Even if additional financing is successfully consummated, available liquidity may still not be sufficient to eliminate the aforementioned substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Refer to the “Going Concern” discussion within Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements for more information.

2024 Equity Distribution Agreement

On March 28, 2024, we entered into an equity distribution agreement (the “Equity Distribution Agreement”) with Canaccord Genuity LLC and D.A. Davidson & Co. (the “Agents”) pursuant to which we may offer and sell up to $15.0 million of shares of our Common Stock from time to time through the Agents, acting as our sales agents, or directly to one or more of the Agents, acting as principal (the “ATM Program”).

Neither of the Agents is required to sell any specific number or dollar amount of shares of our Common Stock, but each has agreed, subject to the terms and conditions of the Equity Distribution Agreement, to use its commercially reasonable efforts, consistent with its normal trading and sales practices, to sell the shares of Common Stock on the terms agreed upon by such Agent and the Company.

We did not sell any shares of common stock nor receive any proceeds under the Equity Distribution Agreement during the year ended June 30, 2024. As a result of the August 2024 Offering, we are precluded from utilizing the ATM program for one year following the closing of the offering.

Material Cash Requirements

Our material short-term cash requirements include general and administrative expenses including recurring payroll and benefit obligations for our employees, operating costs for the Small-Scale Facility, project related costs including funds necessary to further FEL-2 engineering, payments under certain lease agreements and working capital needs. Our long-term material cash requirements from currently known obligations include repayment of outstanding borrowings and interest payment obligations under our Notes (which may be avoided to the extent the Notes are converted to shares of our common stock and/or interest is paid-in-kind) and future obligations to reclaim, remediate, or otherwise restore properties to a condition that existed prior to our operations, and our performance under $4.2 million for purchase order commitments for engineering services, raw materials for the operation of the SSF, equipment, software and drilling. Refer to the “Asset Retirement Obligations,” “Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities,” “Long-term Debt” and “Commitments and Contingencies” footnotes in the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information on certain of these expenditures and obligations.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Our significant estimates and assumptions may include the estimated useful lives and valuation of properties, plant and equipment, mineral rights and properties, deferred tax assets, reclamation liabilities and share-based compensation. See Note 1, “Description of Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report for a full description of the critical accounting policies and estimates below, as well as other accounting policies and estimates we make. Below are the most significant policies we apply in preparing our financial statements, which also describes the most significant estimates and assumptions we make in applying these policies.

Asset Retirement Obligations

Our mining and exploration activities are subject to various laws and regulations, including legal and contractual obligations to reclaim, remediate, or otherwise restore properties at the time the property is removed from service. We estimate these costs based upon internally generated information and information obtained from outside sources. These estimates are then inflated and discounted based on when the expenditures are expected to be incurred and recorded at fair value as an asset and corresponding liability on our consolidated balance sheet. Because these costs typically extend many years into the future, estimation is difficult and requires judgments that are subject to revisions based upon numerous factors, including inflation, changing technology and the political and regulatory environment in which we operate. Changes in cost estimates, discount rates, timing of abandonment activities or inflation, among others, could have a significant impact on our future results of operations or liquidity. We review our assumptions and estimates of future development and abandonment costs annually, or more frequently if circumstances change. See Note 5, “Asset Retirement Obligations” to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report.

Derivative Financial Instruments

We record derivative instruments on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value as either an asset or a liability with changes in fair value recognized currently in earnings. The related cash flow impact of our derivative activities, if any, is reflected as cash flows from operating activities unless the derivatives are determined to have a significant financing element at inception, in which case they are classified within financing activities. During the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, we recognized two separate derivative instruments, each related to beneficial conversion features associated with our Notes. The valuation methodology used as the basis of determining the amount allocated to the derivative instruments and the related derivative gains was a with-and-without methodology utilizing a binomial lattice model (Level 3). This model required the use of assumptions that were subjective, and had different assumptions been used, the resulting derivative gains and amount reflected as a discount to the Notes could have been materially different. See Note 8, “Convertible Notes Derivatives” to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report.

Properties, Plant and Equipment

We record properties, plant and equipment at historical cost. Depreciation and amortization expense is provided in amounts sufficient to match the cost of depreciable assets to operations over their estimated service lives or productive value, whichever is shorter. There is inherent judgment applied in determining an assets useful life, particularly related to the useful life we have assigned to the SSF and its related injection and recovery wells since we do not have a historical basis of comparison for similar assets, and there are limited comparable projects to utilize in benchmarking. If different useful lives had been used, the resulting depreciation expense recognized may be materially different. We review our assumptions and estimates for the assigned useful lives annually, or more frequently if circumstances change. Expenditures for improvements that significantly extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense when incurred. See Note 4, “Properties, Plant and Equipment, Net” to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report.

Share-Based Compensation

We apply a fair value-based method of accounting for stock-based compensation, which requires recognition in the financial statements of the cost of services received in exchange for equity awards. Compensation expense is based on the fair value on the grant or modification date and is recognized in our financial statements over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in additional paid-in capital. We utilize the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to measure the fair value of stock options and a Monte Carlo lattice-based model for our market-based restricted stock units. See Note 10, “Share Based Compensation,” to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a full discussion of our stock-based compensation.

New Accounting Pronouncements and Requirements

See Note 1, “Description of Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” and specifically the discussion under the heading “Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements” to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a discussion of new accounting requirements.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative