ITEM 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This discussion and analysis reflects our consolidated financial statements and other relevant statistical data, and is intended to enhance your understanding of our financial condition and results of operations. The information in this section has been derived from the consolidated financial statements, which appear elsewhere in this annual report. You should read the information in this section in conjunction with the other business and financial information provided in this annual report.

Overview

Our business consists primarily of taking deposits from the general public and investing those deposits, together with funds generated from operations, in residential real estate loans, commercial real estate loans, agricultural mortgage loans, construction loans, commercial and industrial loans, home equity lines of credit, and consumer loans. We also invest in securities, which have historically consisted primarily of mortgage-backed securities and obligations issued by U.S. government sponsored enterprises, state and municipal securities. We offer a variety of deposit accounts including checking accounts, savings accounts, money market and certificate of deposit accounts. The Bank is subject to comprehensive regulation and examination by the OCC.

Our results of operations depend primarily on our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Our results of operations also are affected by our provisions for loan losses, non-interest income and non-interest expense. Non-interest income currently consists primarily of service charges on deposit accounts, other service charges and fees, and income from bank owned life insurance. Non-interest expense currently consists primarily of expenses related to salaries and employee benefits, occupancy and equipment, data processing, contract services, director fees, and other expenses.

We invest in bank owned life insurance to provide us with a funding source to offset some costs of our benefit plan obligations. Bank owned life insurance provides us with non-interest income that is nontaxable. Federal regulations generally limit our investment in bank owned life insurance to 25% of our Tier 1 capital plus our allowance for loan losses. At June 30, 2024, our investment in bank owned life insurance was $5.4 million, which was within this investment limit.

Our results of operations also may be affected significantly by general and local economic and competitive conditions, changes in market interest rates, governmental policies and actions of regulatory authorities.

Business Strategy

Our business strategy is focused on embracing a relationship-oriented community bank model targeting small to mid-sized businesses and professionals in our market areas while continuing to serve our traditional customer base. Highlights of our current business strategy include:

We intend to continue to pursue these business strategies, subject to changes necessitated by future market conditions, regulatory restrictions and other factors.

Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Critical Accounting Estimates

The discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which are prepared in conformity with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets 

and liabilities, and the reported amounts of income and expenses. We consider the accounting policies discussed below to be critical accounting policies. The estimates and assumptions that we use are based on historical experience and various other factors and are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions, resulting in a change that could have a material impact on the carrying value of our assets and liabilities and our results of operations.

The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 contains provisions that, among other things, reduce certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. As an “emerging growth company” we may delay adoption of new or revised accounting pronouncements applicable to public companies until such pronouncements are made applicable to private companies. We intend to take advantage of the benefits of this extended transition period. Accordingly, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with such new or revised accounting standards.

The following represent our critical accounting policies:

Allowance for Credit Losses. The allowance for credit losses is the estimated amount considered necessary to cover inherent, but unconfirmed, credit losses in the loan portfolio at the balance sheet date. On July 1, 2023, the Company adopted the guidance under ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Statements. The main provisions of the ASU have been codified by the FASB under ASC 326. The amendments introduced an impairment model that is based on current expected credit losses, rather than incurred losses, to estimated credit losses on loans. For reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2023, the allowance for credit losses reflects management’s current estimate of expected credit losses over the remaining life of its loans as of the end of the reporting period. For reporting periods prior to July 1, 2023, the allowance for credit losses represented management’s estimate for probable and reasonably estimable loan losses, but which had not yet been realized as of the end of the reporting period. Refer to Note 1 and Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for more information on the adoption of ASC 326. 

The allowance for credit losses included the allowance for credit losses on loans, and the allowance for credit losses for unfunded lending commitments, which is recorded in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. The allowance for credit losses is established through the provision for credit losses charged against income. In determining the allowance for credit losses, management makes significant estimates and has identified this policy as one of our most critical accounting policies.

Management’s estimate of the allowance for credit losses considers factors such as changes in the types and amount of loans in the loan portfolio, historical loss experience, adverse situations that may affect the borrower’s ability to repay, estimated value of any underlying collateral, estimated losses relating to specifically identified loans, current and future economic conditions, and forecasted information. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires material estimates including, among others, average historical loss experience, expected future loss rates, the amount and timing of expected future pay-downs on existing loans and fundings on unfunded commitments, and the value of underlying collateral. All of these estimates may be susceptible to significant changes as more information becomes available.

Deferred Tax Assets. We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. We exercise significant judgment in evaluating the amount and timing of recognition of the resulting tax liabilities and assets. These judgments require us to make projections of future taxable income. The judgments and estimates we make in determining our deferred tax assets, which are inherently subjective, are reviewed on a continual basis as regulatory and business factors change. Determining the proper valuation allowance for deferred taxes is critical in properly valuing the deferred tax asset and the related recognition of income tax expense or benefit. Any reduction in estimated future taxable income may require us to record a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets.

Fair Value Measurements. The fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. We estimate the fair value of a financial instrument and any related asset impairment using a variety of valuation methods. Where financial instruments are actively traded and have quoted market prices, quoted market prices are used for fair value. When the financial instruments are not actively traded, other observable market inputs, such as quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics, may be used, if available, to determine fair value. When observable market prices do not exist, we estimate fair value. These estimates are subjective in nature and imprecision in estimating these factors can impact the amount of gain or loss recorded. For a detailed description of the fair values measured at each level of the fair value hierarchy and the methodology we utilize, see note 14 of the notes to financial statements.

Selected Financial Data

The following selected consolidated financial data sets forth certain financial highlights of the Company and should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

​

​

Comparison of Financial Condition at June 30, 2024 and June 30, 2023

Total Assets. Total assets increased $145.3 million, or 87.6%, to $311.3 million at June 30, 2024 from $166.0 million at June 30, 2023. The increase is part of the Company’s growth plans to more appropriately leverage capital and was largely concentrated to growth in available-for-sale debt securities and commercial loans, which were funded primarily with borrowings and brokered deposits.

Cash and Due from Banks. Cash and due from banks increased $26.1 million, or 473.5%, to $31.6 million at June 30, 2024 from $5.5 million at June 30, 2023. The increase was a result of the Bank testing its overnight Cash Management Advance (“CMA”) line with FHLB. This resulted in a corresponding increase in borrowings as noted below.

Investment Securities. Investment securities increased $68.8 million, or 97.4%, to $139.3 million at June 30, 2024 from $70.6 million at June 30, 2023. Aggregate securities purchases of $114.8 million during the year ended June 30, 2024, were funded through cash on hand, sales, calls, maturities and repayments of $44.3 million, and brokered deposits and wholesale funding from FHLB and FRB under the BTFP The increase in investment securities is part of a forward-looking investment strategy to increase the number of variable rate investments financed by fixed rate deposit 

instruments, which will ultimately provide a more balanced interest rate risk profile. The increase is also part of an effort to more appropriately leverage the Company’s capital.

The $682,000 increase in the fair value of the investment securities was primarily attributable to declines in interest rates in the intermediate and long end of the yield curve. The unrealized gains are recorded to equity, net of tax, as management has determined that there are no credit quality concerns with the issuers of the securities and there is no intent to sell the securities and, as a result, the fair value is expected to recover as the securities approach their maturity dates.

The yield on our investment securities increased to 5.81% for the year ended June 30, 2024 from 3.22% for the year ended June 30, 2023.

Net Loans. Net loans increased by $45.2 million, or 55.6%, to $126.4 million at June 30, 2024 from $81.2 million at June 30, 2023. During the year ended June 30, 2024, loan originations totaled $53.9 million, comprised of $9.8 million of loans secured by one- to four-family residential real estate, $1.2 million of HELOCs, $494,000 of consumer loans, $628,000 of agricultural, $12.7 million of construction and land loans, and $29.0 million of commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans. 

During the year ended June 30, 2024, residential real estate loans increased $4.0 million, or 6.0%, to $69.8 million at June 30, 2024, construction and land loans increased $9.1 million, or 106.0%, to $17.6 million at June 30, 2024, commercial and industrial loans increased $11.5 million, or 337.7%, to $14.9 million at June 30, 2024, agricultural real estate loans increased $169,000, or 4.2%, to a total of $4.2 million at June 30, 2024, and commercial real estate loans increased $13.7 million, or 228.2% to $19.7 million at June 30, 2024. Increases in loan balances reflect our strategy to grow our loan portfolio, continuing to focus on owner-occupied one-to-four family residential real estate loans, while increasing our emphasis on commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans. Management intends to continue to pursue growth in these loan segments in future periods.

Deposits. Deposits increased by $89.3 million, or 74.4%, to $209.3 million at June 30, 2024 from $120.0 million at June 30, 2023. Core deposits increased $15.3 million, or 13.8%, to $125.2 million at June 30, 2024. Brokered deposits increased $74.1 million, or 735.0% at June 30, 2024. The increase in the brokered deposits were used to fund higher earning assets and increase net interest income. The addition of these deposits was part of management’s strategy to fund variable rate investments with fixed rate funding. A portion of the brokered deposits have a callable feature that allows for interest rate risk protection in rates down environment.

During the year ended June 30, 2024, management continued its strategy of pursuing growth in demand accounts and other lower cost core deposits, in part by enhancing products and services offered, including mobile banking. Management intends to continue its efforts to increase core deposits, with an emphasis on growth in consumer and business demand deposits.

Borrowings. Borrowings increased $55.8 million, or 900%, to $62 million at June 30, 2024. The borrowings consisted of advances from FHLB and from the FRB under the Bank Term Funding Program. $24 million of the FHLB advances were repaid on July 1, 2024. These borrowings were short-term in nature (less than one year maturity) and are being used as part of management’s overall growth strategy. See note 7 within Item 8 for further discussion of borrowings.

Total Equity. Total equity decreased $2.0 million, or 5.1%, to $36.5 million at June 30, 2024 from $38.5 million at June 30, 2023. The decrease resulted net loss during the fiscal year, purchase of treasury stock, and was partially offset by a decrease in accumulated other comprehensive loss resulted from unrealized gains on our investment portfolio during the year.

Average Balances and Yields. The following table sets forth average balance sheets, average yields and costs, and certain other information for the years indicated. No tax-equivalent yield adjustments have been made, as the effects are immaterial. Average balances are calculated using month-end actual balances, rather than daily average balances. We believe the use of month-end actual balances is representative of our operations. Non-accrual loans are included in 

average balances only. Average yields include the effect of deferred fees, discounts, and premiums that are amortized or accreted to interest income or interest expense. Deferred loan fees are immaterial.

Rate/Volume Analysis

The following table presents the effects of changing rates and volumes on our net interest income for the periods indicated. The rate column shows the effects attributable to changes in rate (changes in rate multiplied by prior volume). The volume column shows the effects attributable to changes in volume (changes in volume multiplied by prior rate). The total column represents the sum of the prior columns. For purposes of this table, changes attributable to both rate 

and volume, which cannot be segregated, have been allocated proportionately based on the changes due to rate and the changes due to volume. There were no out-of-period items or adjustments required to be excluded from the table below.

​

Comparison of Operating Results for the Years Ended June 30, 2024 and June 30, 2023

General. Net loss for the year ended June 30, 2024, was $2.0 million, an increase of $1.5 million, compared to net loss of $545,000 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increase in net loss was primarily due to a $2.3 million increase in noninterest expenses, which included certain one-time expenses as noted in the noninterest expense section below, as well as a $1.4 million increase in salaries and employee benefits. 

Interest Income. Interest income increased $7.0 million, or 137.9%, to $12.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2024, from $5.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. This increase was primarily attributable to a $5.1 million, or 345.7%, increase in interest on investment securities, a $2.0 million, or 68.7%, increase in interest on loans.

The average balance of loans during the year ended June 30, 2024, increased $20.9 million, or 26.3%, from the balance for the year ended June 30, 2023, and the average yield on loans increased by 1.21% to 3.83% for the year ended June 30, 2024 from 3.62% for the year ended June 30, 2023.

The average balance of investment securities increased $67.7 million, or 146.9%, to $113.8 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 from $46.1 million for the year ended June 30, 2023, while the average yield on investment securities increased by 2.59% to 5.81% for the year ended June 30, 2024 from 3.22% for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increase in average yield on securities resulted from the effects of management’s purchasing of higher yielding variable rate securities. 

The average balance of other interest-bearing deposits, comprised primarily of certificates of deposit in other financial institutions, overnight deposits and stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve Bank, decreased $4.1 million, or -26.9%, for the year ended June 30, 2024, while the average yield increased 49 basis points, to 5.04% for the year ended June 30, 2024 from 4.55% for the year ended June 30, 2023, reflecting the elevated interest rate environment.

Interest Expense. Total interest expense increased $5.9 million, or 762.6%, to $6.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 from $780,000 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increase was primarily due to an increase of 2.40% in the average cost of deposits to 3.10% for the year ended June 30, 2024, from 0.70% for the year ended June 30, 2023, 

reflecting how management has had to increase the offered rates to be competitive in the current rising interest rate environment, as well as management’s strategic decision to leverage wholesale funding and brokered deposits. 

Net Interest Income. Net interest income increased $1.0 million, or 23.9%, to $5.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2024 compared to $4.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increase is a reflection of the above noted factors and management’s decision to utilize wholesale funding and brokered deposits to invest in high yielding assets in an attempt to negate cost of funds pressure on core deposits and our historical fixed rate residential loan portfolio and mortgage backed securities.

Provision for Credit Losses. Based on an analysis of the factors described in “Critical Accounting Policies—Allowance for Credit Losses,” management concluded that a provision for credit losses of $578,000 was required for the year ended June 30, 2024, which included a provision of $463,000 for loan and a provision of $156,000 for unfunded loan commitments. The allowance for credit losses was $773,000 and $263,000 at June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and represented 0.60% of total loans at June 30, 2024, and 0.29% of total loans at June 30, 2023. See Notes 1 and 2 within Item 8 for further discussion on the adoption of of ASC 326 during the year.

Total nonperforming loans were $554,000 at June 30, 2024, compared to $304,000 at June 30, 2023. Classified loans totaled $64,000 at June 30, 2024, compared to $67,000 at June 30, 2023, and total loans past due greater than 30 days were $761,000 and $733,000 at those respective dates. As a percentage of nonperforming loans, the allowance for loan losses was 139.5% at June 30, 2024 compared to 86.5% at June 30, 2023.

The allowance for credit losses reflects the estimate management believes to be appropriate to cover current expected credit losses which were inherent in the loan portfolio. While management believes the estimates and assumptions used in the determination of the adequacy of the allowance are reasonable, such estimates and assumptions could be proven incorrect in the future, and the actual amount of future provisions may exceed the amount of past provisions, and the increase in future provisions that may be required may adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management.

Non-Interest Income. Non-interest income totaled $230,000 for the year ended June 30, 2024, an increase of $22,000, or 10.6%, from $208,000 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increase was primarily due to normal fluctuations in the volume of fees on loans and deposits.

Noninterest Expense. Noninterest expense increased $2.3 million, or 44.6%, to $7.5 million for the year ended June 30, 2024, compared to $5.2 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increase is driven from increases in salaries and employee benefits as we continue to add key positions vital to the expansion and growth of the Bank, data processing fees as we continue to add new products and modules for the benefit of customers, FDIC insurance premiums associated with our overall deposit growth, advertising and marketing expenses related to the rebranding of the Bank, as noted elsewhere in this form, and certain one-time expenses as noted below. 

One-time Expenses Related to Conversion

At the time of the conversion on July 13, 2022, the Bank estimated that it would incur a one-time expense in the third quarter 2022 related to the termination of the defined benefit plan of approximately $3.1 million. Given the increase in interest rates since the time of the initial estimation, the actual cost of termination of the defined benefit plan is expected to be approximately $1.35 million, with over $1 million of those expenses occurring in fiscal year 2023.

In January 2023, the board of directors agreed to take the necessary steps to become a regional commercial bank, ultimately electing to become a Covered Savings Association (CSA) instead of remaining as a Qualified Thrift Lender (QTL). The board of directors, in conjunction with the decreased one-time expenses related to the termination of the defined benefit plan, approved $1.85 million of one-time expenses for, among other things, investments in products, services, software, operating system modules, branding, personnel, consulting fees and training related to obtaining the capabilities required of a regional commercial bank. 

The following is management’s classification of these expenses for fiscal year 2023, fiscal year 2024, and combined fiscal year 2023 and fiscal year 2024:

​

Federal Income Taxes. Federal income taxes benefit increased by $367,000, or 201.0%, to a $550,000 benefit for the year ended June 30, 2024, compared to tax benefit of $183,000 for the year ended June 30, 2023, which was driven by the increase in pretax net loss of $1.8 million, or 252.9%

Management of Market Risk

General. Our most significant form of market risk is interest rate risk because, as a financial institution, the majority of our assets and liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. Therefore, a principal part of our operations is to manage interest rate risk and limit the exposure of our financial condition and results of operations to changes in market interest rates. All directors participate in discussions during the regular board meetings evaluating the interest rate risk inherent in our assets and liabilities, and the level of risk that is appropriate. These discussions take into consideration our business strategy, operating environment, capital, liquidity and performance objectives consistent with the policy and guidelines approved by them.

Our asset/liability management strategy attempts to manage the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income, our primary source of earnings. Among the techniques we are using to manage interest rate risk are:

By following these strategies, we believe that we are better positioned to react to increases and decreases in market interest rates.

We have not engaged in hedging activities, such as engaging in futures or options but are evaluating the use of these products in the future.

Economic Value of Equity. We also compute amounts by which the net present value of our assets and liabilities (economic value of equity or “EVE”) would change in the event of a range of assumed changes in market interest rates. This model uses a discounted cash flow analysis and an option-based pricing approach to measure the interest rate sensitivity of net portfolio value. The model estimates the economic value of each type of asset, liability and off-balance 

sheet contract under the assumptions that the United States Treasury yield curve increases instantaneously by 100, 200, 300 and 400 basis point increments or decreases instantaneously by 100, 200, 300 and 400basis point increments, with changes in interest rates representing immediate and permanent, parallel shifts in the yield curve.

The following table sets forth, at June 30, 2024, the calculation of the estimated changes in our EVE that would result from the designated immediate changes in the United States Treasury yield curve.

The table above indicates that at June 30, 2024, we would have experienced a 18.30% decrease in EVE in the event of an instantaneous parallel 200 basis point increase in market interest rates and a 24.73% increase in EVE in the event of an instantaneous 200 basis point decrease in market interest rates.

Change in Net Interest Income. The following table sets forth, at June 30, 2024, the calculation of the estimated changes in our net interest income (“NII”) that would result from the designated immediate changes in the United States Treasury yield curve.

The table above indicates that at June 30, 2024, we would have experienced an 1.12% increase in NII in the event of an instantaneous parallel 200 basis point increase in market interest rates and a 0.85% increase in NII in the event of an instantaneous 200 basis point decrease in market interest rates.

Certain shortcomings are inherent in the methodologies used in the above interest rate risk measurement. Modeling changes in EVE and NII require making certain assumptions that may or may not reflect the manner in which actual yields and costs respond to changes in market interest rates. For instance, the EVE and NII tables presented above assume that the composition of our interest-sensitive assets and liabilities existing at the beginning of a period remains constant over the period being measured and assumes that a particular change in interest rates is reflected uniformly across the yield curve regardless of the duration or repricing of specific assets and liabilities. However, the shape of the yield curve changes constantly and the value and pricing of our assets and liabilities, including our deposits, may not closely correlate with changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, although the EVE and NII tables may provide an indication of our interest rate risk exposure at a particular point in time and in the context of a particular yield curve, such measurements are not intended to and do not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes in market interest rates on EVE and NII and will differ from actual results.

EVE and net interest NII calculations also may not reflect the fair values of financial instruments. For example, decreases in market interest rates can increase the fair values of our loans, deposits and borrowings.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity describes our ability to meet the financial obligations that arise in the ordinary course of business. Liquidity is primarily needed to meet the borrowing and deposit withdrawal requirements of our customers and to fund current and planned expenditures. Our primary sources of funds are deposits, principal and interest payments on loans and securities, and proceeds from maturities of securities. We also have the ability to borrow from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati and Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland under the Bank Term Funding Program. At June 30, 2024, we had outstanding borrowings of $38.5 million from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati and $23.5 million from the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. At June 30, 2024, we had the capacity to borrow an additional $3.9 million from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati. On July 1, 2024, $24.0 million of borrowings from FHLB were repaid.

While maturities and scheduled amortization of loans and securities are predictable sources of funds, deposit flows and loan prepayments are greatly influenced by general interest rates, economic conditions, and competition. Our most liquid assets are cash and short-term investments. The levels of these assets are dependent on our operating, financing, lending, and investing activities during any given period.

Our cash flows are comprised of three primary classifications: cash flows from operating activities, cash flows from investing activities, and cash flows from financing activities. For further information, see the statements of cash flows contained in the financial statements appearing elsewhere in this annual report.

We are committed to maintaining a strong liquidity position. We monitor our liquidity position on a daily basis. We anticipate that we will have sufficient funds to meet our current funding commitments. Based on our deposit retention experience and current pricing strategy, we anticipate that a significant portion of maturing time deposits will be retained.

At June 30, 2024, the Bank’s Tier 1 leverage capital was $32.9 million, or 12.1% of adjusted assets. Accordingly, it was categorized as well-capitalized at June 30, 2024 under the “community bank leverage ratio” framework. Management is not aware of any conditions or events since the most recent notification that would change our category. For further information, see note 9 to the notes to financial statements.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. At June 30, 2024, we had $33.1 million of outstanding commitments to originate loans. Certificates of deposit that are scheduled to mature in less than one year from June 30, 2024 totaled $46.1 million at June 30, 2024. Management expects that a substantial portion of the maturing certificates of deposit will be renewed. However, if a substantial portion of these deposits is not retained, we may utilize Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati advances, pledge eligible securities to the FRB under the discount window, or raise interest rates on deposits to attract new accounts, which may result in higher levels of interest expense.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

For a discussion of the impact of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 of the notes to financial statements appearing elsewhere in this annual report.

Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices

The financial statements and related data presented in this report have been prepared according to GAAP which require the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The primary impact of inflation on our operations is reflected in increased operating costs. Unlike most industrial companies, virtually all of the assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates, generally, have a more significant impact on a financial institution’s performance than does inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily move in the same direction or to the same extent as the prices of goods and services.

​

ITEM 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative