"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on September 12, 2023, as amended by that certain Amendment No. 1 to Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on October 27, 2023, which provides additional information on our results for fiscal 2023 and our fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 ("fiscal 2022").

Our Business

We are a leading coffee roaster, wholesaler, equipment servicer and distributor of coffee, tea and other allied products manufactured under our owned brands, as well as under private labels on behalf of certain customers. We were founded in 1912, incorporated in California in 1923, and reincorporated in Delaware in 2004. Our principal office is located in Fort Worth, Texas. We operate in one business segment.

We serve a wide variety of customers, from small independent restaurants and foodservice operators to large institutional buyers like restaurants, department and convenience store retailers, hotels, casinos, healthcare facilities, and gourmet coffee houses, as well as grocery chains with private brand and consumer-branded coffee and tea products, and foodservice distributors. Through our sustainability, stewardship, environmental efforts, and leadership we are not only committed to serving the finest products available, considering the cost needs of the customer, but also focus on their sustainable cultivation, manufacture and distribution whenever possible.

Our product categories consist of a robust line of roast and ground coffee, including organic, Direct Trade, Project D.I.R.E.C.T.®, Fair Trade Certified™ ® and other sustainably-produced offerings; frozen liquid coffee; flavored and unflavored iced and hot teas; including organic and Rainforest Alliance Certified™; culinary products including premium spices, pancake and biscuit mixes, gravy and sauce mixes, soup bases, dressings, syrups and sauces, and coffee-related products such as coffee filters, cups, sugar and creamers; and other beverages including cappuccino, cocoa, granitas, and other blender-based beverages and concentrated and ready-to-drink cold brew and iced coffee. We offer a comprehensive approach to our customers by providing not only a breadth of high-quality products, but also value added services such as market insight, beverage planning, and equipment placement and service. 

We operate a production facility in Portland, Oregon. We distribute our products from our Portland, Oregon production facility, as well as separate distribution centers in Northlake, Illinois; Moonachie, New Jersey; and Rialto, California. Our products reach our customers primarily through our nationwide DSD network of 243 delivery routes and 104 branch warehouses as of June 30, 2024. DSD sales are primarily made “off-truck” to our customers at their places of business. We operate a large fleet of trucks and other vehicles to distribute and deliver our products through our DSD network, and we rely on 3PL service providers for our long-haul distribution. 

Summary Overview of Fiscal 2024 Results

Net sales in fiscal 2024 increased $1.1 million, or 0.3%, to $341.1 million from $340.0 million in fiscal 2023. The increase in net sales was primarily due to higher pricing compared to prior periods, partially offset by a decline in sales volume. 

During fiscal 2024, we experienced higher gross margins compared to fiscal 2023. Overall, gross margins increased by 5.6% to 39.3% in fiscal 2024 from 33.7% in fiscal 2023. The improvement in gross margins was a result of price increases and delivery surcharges implemented across our network.

Operating expenses increased by $0.6 million in fiscal 2024 over the prior year period due to a $8.2 million increase in selling expenses and a $4.1 million increase in general and administrative expenses offset by a $11.7 million increase in gain on sale of assets from the sale of branch properties and other assets. The increase in selling expenses during fiscal 2024 was primarily due to additional spend on facility and vehicle rent expense and healthcare benefits, partially offset by a decrease in advertising related expenses. The increase in general and administrative expenses during fiscal 2024 was primarily due to an increase in severance costs, other compensation related costs and rent. Further, the increase was impacted by the non-recurrence of a $1.9 million gain related to the settlement of the Boyd’s acquisition and payroll tax refund in fiscal 2023.

Our capital expenditures related to continuing operations for fiscal 2024 were $13.8 million as compared to $13.2 million in fiscal 2023, an increase of $0.6 million. This was driven by an increase in maintenance capital spend on buildings and 

facilities.

As of June 30, 2024, the outstanding debt on our Revolver Credit Facility was $23.3 million, an increase of $0.3 million since June 30, 2023. Our cash increased by $0.6 million to $6.0 million as of June 30, 2024, compared to $5.4 million as of June 30, 2023. 

Financial Data Highlights (in thousands, except per share data and percentages)

________________

NM - Not Meaningful

EBITDA, EBITDA Margin, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are non-GAAP financial measures. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to their corresponding GAAP measures, as well as discussion of certain changes we made to our methodology for calculating Adjusted EBITDA beginning with the period ending June 30, 2024.

Includes all beverages other than roasted coffee, frozen liquid coffee, and iced and hot tea, including cappuccino, cocoa, granitas, and concentrated and ready-to-drink cold brew and iced coffee.

Factors Affecting Our Business

We have identified factors that affect our industry and business which we expect will play an important role in our future growth and profitability. Some of these factors include:

•Investment in Manufacturing Facility. We are focused on leveraging our Portland, Oregon facility to produce the highest quality coffee in response to the market shift to premium and specialty coffee and create sustainable long-term growth. We will continue to invest in our facility to ensure reliable production while focusing on overall production costs. 

•Supply Chain Efficiencies and Competition. In order to compete effectively and capitalize on growth opportunities, we must retain and continue to grow our customer base, evaluate and undertake initiatives to reduce costs and streamline our supply chain. We continue to look for ways to deploy our personnel, systems, assets and infrastructure to create or enhance stockholder value. Areas of focus include distribution network optimization, methods of procurement, logistics, inventory management, supporting technology, and real estate assets. The ability to attract and retain a skilled workforce, as well as mitigate global supply chain challenges, will affect our future growth and profitability. 

•Demographic and Channel Trends. Our success is dependent upon our ability to develop new products in response to demographic and other trends to better compete in areas such as premium coffee and tea, including expansion of our product portfolio by investing resources in what we believe to be key growth categories and different formats. 

•Fluctuations in Green Coffee Prices. Our primary raw material is green coffee, an exchange-traded agricultural commodity that is subject to price fluctuations. Over the past five years, coffee “C” market near month price per pound ranged from approximately $0.90 to $2.60. The coffee “C” market near month price as of June 30, 2024 and 2023 was $2.29 and $1.65 per pound, respectively. The price and availability of green coffee directly impacts our results of operations. For additional details, see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

•Hedging Strategy. We are exposed to market risk of losses due to changes in coffee commodity prices. Our business model strives to reduce the impact of green coffee price fluctuations on our financial results and to protect and stabilize our margins, principally through derivative instruments, as further explained in Note 5, Derivative Instruments, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10‑K.

•Coffee Brewing Equipment Service & Restoration ("Revive"). With Revive, we offer our customers a comprehensive equipment program and 24/7 nationwide equipment service which we believe differentiates us in the marketplace. We offer a full spectrum of equipment needs, which includes brewing equipment installation, water filtration systems, equipment training, and maintenance services to ensure we are able to meet our customer’s demands. 

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth information regarding our consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023. 

_____________

NM - Not Meaningful

Fiscal 2024 and Fiscal 2023

Net Sales

Net sales in fiscal 2024 increased $1.1 million, or 0.3%, to $341.1 million from $340.0 million in fiscal 2023. The increase in net sales was primarily due to higher pricing compared to prior periods, partially offset by a decline in sales volume. On our sales, average unit price increased due to the increase in pricing. 

The following table presents the effect of changes in unit sales, unit pricing and product mix for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 (in millions):

Units Sold and Pricing

Unit sales decreased 8.6% and average unit price increased by 7.8% in fiscal 2024 as compared to the same prior year period, resulting in a net increase in net sales of 0.3%. Average unit price increased during fiscal 2024 due to a mix of products sold, along with price increases implemented during fiscal 2024. There were no new product category introductions in fiscal 

2024 or fiscal 2023 which had a material impact on our net sales.

Gross Profit

Gross profit in fiscal 2024 increased $19.3 million, or 16.8%, to $133.9 million from $114.6 million in fiscal 2023. Gross margin increased by 5.6% to 39.3% in fiscal 2024 from 33.7% in fiscal 2023. The increase in gross profit in fiscal 2024 was primarily driven by improved pricing.

Operating Expenses

In fiscal 2024, operating expenses increased by $0.6 million, or 0.4%, to $136.1 million, from $135.6 million, in fiscal 2023. The increase was primarily due to $8.2 million increase in selling expenses and a $4.1 million increase in general and administrative expenses offset by a $11.7 million increase in net gains from sale of assets due to sale of branch properties during fiscal 2024. 

The increase in selling expenses during fiscal 2024 was primarily due to additional spend on facility and vehicle rent expense and healthcare benefits. The increase in general and administrative expenses during fiscal 2024 was primarily due to an increase in severance costs, other compensation related costs and rent. Further, the increase was impacted by the non-recurrence of a $1.9 million gain related to the settlement of the Boyd’s acquisition and payroll tax refund in fiscal 2023.

Total Other Income (Expense) 

Total other income (expense) in fiscal 2024 was $1.6 million of expense compared to $13.4 million of expense in fiscal 2023. The change in total other income (expense) in fiscal 2024 was primarily a result of a decrease in interest expense and gains from coffee-related derivative instruments in fiscal 2024 compared to losses from coffee-related derivative instruments in fiscal 2023. 

Interest expense in fiscal 2024 decreased $1.3 million to $7.8 million from $9.2 million in the prior year period. The decrease in interest expense in fiscal 2024 was principally due to lower supplier interest expense.

In fiscal 2024, Other, net increased by $10.4 million to a $6.2 million gain compared to a $4.2 million loss in fiscal 2023. The increase in Other, net, was primarily a result of mark-to-market net gains on coffee-related derivative instruments not designated as accounting hedges during fiscal 2024.

Income Taxes

In fiscal 2024, we recorded income tax expense of $14.0 thousand as compared to income tax benefit of $0.3 million in fiscal 2023. The income tax expense in the current year was related primarily to state income tax. 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

In addition to net loss determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), we use the following non-GAAP financial measures in assessing our operating performance:

“EBITDA” is defined as loss from continuing operations excluding the impact of:

•income tax expense (benefit);

•interest expense; and

•depreciation and amortization expense.

“EBITDA Margin” is defined as EBITDA expressed as a percentage of net sales.

“Adjusted EBITDA” is defined as loss from continuing operations excluding the impact of:

•income tax expense (benefit);

•interest expense;

•depreciation and amortization expense;

•401(k) and share-based compensation expense;

•net gains from sales of assets;

•severance costs;

•loss related to sale of business; and

•gain on settlement with Boyd's sellers.

“Adjusted EBITDA Margin” is defined as Adjusted EBITDA expressed as a percentage of net sales.

For purposes of calculating EBITDA and EBITDA Margin, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin, we have excluded the impact of interest expense resulting from non-cash pretax pension and postretirement benefits. For purposes of calculating Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin, we are also excluding the impact of severance and the loss 

related to sale of business as these items are not reflective of our ongoing operating results. See Note 3, Discontinued Operations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10‑K for more information related to the sale of business and the discontinued operations.

We believe these non-GAAP financial measures provide a useful measure of the Company’s operating results, a meaningful comparison with historical results and with the results of other companies, and insight into the Company’s ongoing operating performance. Further, management utilizes these measures, in addition to GAAP measures, when evaluating and comparing the Company’s operating performance against internal financial forecasts and budgets. 

We believe that EBITDA facilitates operating performance comparisons from period to period by isolating the effects of certain items that vary from period to period without any correlation to core operating performance or that vary widely among similar companies. These potential differences may be caused by variations in capital structures (affecting interest expense), tax positions (such as the impact on periods or companies of changes in effective tax rates or net operating losses) and the age and book depreciation of facilities and equipment (affecting relative depreciation expense). We also present EBITDA and EBITDA Margin because (i) we believe that these measures are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties to evaluate companies in our industry, (ii) we believe that investors will find these measures useful in assessing our ability to service or incur indebtedness, and (iii) we use these measures internally as benchmarks to compare our performance to that of our competitors.

EBITDA, EBITDA Margin, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. We do not intend for non-GAAP financial measures to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. This calculation is for continuing operations only.

Set forth below is a reconciliation of loss from continuing operations to EBITDA (non-GAAP): 

____________

Excludes interest expense related to pension plans and postretirement benefits.

Set forth below is a reconciliation of loss from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA (non-GAAP): 

________

Excludes interest expense related to pension plans and postretirement benefits.

Result of the settlement related to the acquisition of Boyd Coffee Company which included the cancellation of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and settlement of liabilities.

Result of the settlements related to the Sale, which included gains related to coffee hedges and settlement of liabilities.

Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Condition

The following table summarizes the Company’s debt obligations, excluding unamortized deferred debt financing costs:

Credit Facility

The revolver under the Credit Facility has a commitment of up to $75.0 million and a maturity date of April 26, 2027. Availability under the revolver is calculated as the lesser of (a) $75.0 million or (b) the amount equal to the sum of (i) 85% of eligible accounts receivable (less a dilution reserve), plus (ii) the lesser of: (a) 80% of eligible raw material inventory, eligible in-transit inventory and eligible finished goods inventory (collectively, “Eligible Inventory”), and (b) 85% of the net orderly liquidation value of Eligible Inventory, minus (c) applicable reserve. The term loan under the Term Credit Facility was fully paid down on June 30, 2023. 

The Credit Facility contain customary affirmative and negative covenants and restrictions typical for a financing of this type. Non-compliance with one or more of the covenants and restrictions could result in the full or partial principal balance of the Credit Facility becoming immediately due and payable and termination of the commitments. As of and through June 30, 2024, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under the Credit Facility. 

The Credit Facility provides us with increased flexibility to proactively manage our liquidity and working capital, while maintaining compliance with our debt financial covenants, and preserving financial liquidity to mitigate the impact of the uncertain business environment and continue to execute on key strategic initiatives.

Pursuant to an International Swap Dealers Association, Inc. Master Agreement (“ISDA”) effective March 20, 2019, the Company on March 27, 2019, entered into a swap transaction utilizing a notional amount of $80.0 million, with an effective date of April 11, 2019 and a maturity date of October 11, 2023 (the “Original Rate Swap”). In December 2019, the Company amended the notional amount to $65.0 million. The Original Rate Swap was intended to manage the Company’s interest rate risk on its floating-rate indebtedness under the Company's prior revolving credit facility. Under the terms of the Original Rate Swap, the Company received 1-month LIBOR, subject to a 0% floor, and made payments based on a fixed rate of 2.1975%. The Company’s obligations under the ISDA were secured by the collateral which secures the loans under the prior revolving credit facility on a pari passu and pro rata basis with the principal of such loans. On May 16, 2023, the Company settled the Original Rate Swap. The net settlement of the Original Rate Swap was a $13 thousand loss. There is no remaining balance frozen in AOCI as of June 30, 2023. See Note 5, Derivative Instruments, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10‑K, for details.

At June 30, 2024, we had outstanding borrowings of $23.3 million and utilized $4.1 million of the letters of credit sublimit under the Credit Facility, and had $27.8 million of availability under our Credit Facility. 

Liquidity

We generally finance our operations through cash flows from operations and borrowings under our Credit Facility. In light of our financial position, operating performance and current economic conditions, including the state of the global capital markets, there can be no assurance as to whether or when we will be able to raise capital by issuing securities. We believe that the Credit Facility, to the extent available, in addition to our cash flows from operations, collectively, will be sufficient to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the next 12 months.

At June 30, 2024, we had $5.8 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents. Further changes in commodity prices and the number of coffee-related derivative instruments held could have a significant impact on cash deposit requirements under our broker and counterparty agreements and may adversely affect our liquidity. An economic downturn may also cause substantial changes in consumer behavior and demand for our products, adversely affecting results of operations and our financial position, some of which we may not be able to predict with certainty.

Cash Flows

The significant captions and amounts from our consolidated statements of cash flows are summarized below: 

Operating Activities

Net cash used in operating activities in fiscal 2024 increased $6.8 million as compared to fiscal 2023. The change was driven by a paydown of accounts payable and an increase in inventory, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable in fiscal 2024. 

Investing Activities

Net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal 2024 was $14.7 million as compared to $0.3 million during fiscal 2023. In fiscal 2024, proceeds from sale of assets was $29.8 million offset by maintenance capital expenditures of $13.8 million and a $1.2 million related to a working capital adjustment in continuing operations.

Financing Activities

Net cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2024 was $10.0 thousand as compared to $86.1 million of cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2023. Proceeds from the Sale were used to pay off in full, the $47 million outstanding amount under the Term Credit Facility and the partial pay down of the Revolver Credit Facility to a balance of $23.0 million as of June 30, 2023. The Revolver Credit Facility remained at $23.3 million as of June 30, 2024.

Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies

Our principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from our operations and borrowing capacity currently available under our Credit Facility. We generally finance our obligations through cash flows from operations and borrowings under our Credit Facility. We believe that the Credit Facility, to the extent available, in addition to our cash flows from operations, collectively, will be sufficient to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the next 12 months.

At June 30, 2024, we had $5.8 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents. At June 30, 2024, we had $27.8 million of availability under our Credit Facility. 

The following table contains information regarding total contractual obligations as of June 30, 2024, which we expect to fund primarily with operating cash flows:

______________

See Note 6, Leases, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10‑K.

See Note 12, Employee Benefit Plans, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10‑K.

Purchase commitments include commitments under coffee purchase contracts for which all delivery terms have been finalized but the related coffee has not been received as of June 30, 2024. Amounts shown in the table above: (a) include all coffee purchase contracts that the Company considers to be from normal purchases; and (b) do not include amounts related to derivative instruments that are recorded at fair value on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. See Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10‑K.

See Note 13, Debt Obligations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10‑K.

Capital Expenditures

For fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 our capital expenditures paid were $13.8 million and $13.2 million, respectively. In fiscal 2025, we anticipate capital expenditures will be between $9.0 million and $11.0 million. We expect to finance these expenditures through cash flows from operations and borrowings under our Revolver Credit Facility.

Depreciation and amortization expense from continuing operations was $11.6 million and $12.9 million in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a summary of recently adopted and recently issued accounting standards and their related effects or anticipated effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of June 30, 2024 or June 30, 2023.

Critical Accounting Estimates

We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.

Our significant accounting estimates are discussed in additional detail in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. We believe that our significant accounting estimates involve a higher degree of judgment and/or complexity for the reasons discussed below:

Fair value of coffee-related derivative instruments

We are exposed to commodity price risk arising from changes in the market price of green coffee. In general, increases in the price of green coffee could cause our cost of goods sold to increase and, if not offset by product price increases, could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. As a result, our business model strives to reduce the impact of green coffee price fluctuations on our financial results and to protect and stabilize our margins, principally through customer arrangements and derivative instruments.

We utilize derivative instruments to reduce the impact of changing green coffee commodity prices. We purchase over-the-counter coffee derivative instruments to enable us to lock in the price of green coffee commodity purchases. These derivative instruments may be entered into at the direction of the customer under commodity-based pricing arrangements to effectively lock in the purchase price of green coffee under such customer arrangements, in certain cases up to 18 months or longer in the future. Notwithstanding this customer direction, pursuant to Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC“) 815, “Derivatives and Hedging,” we are considered the owner of these derivative instruments and, therefore, we are required to account for them as such. In the event the customer fails to purchase the products associated with the underlying derivative instruments for which the price has been locked-in on behalf of the customer, we expect that such derivative instruments will be assigned to, and assumed by, the customer in accordance with contractual terms or, in the absence of such terms, in accordance with standard industry custom and practice. In the event the customer fails to assume such derivative instruments, we will remain obligated on the derivative instruments at settlement. We generally settle derivative instruments to coincide with the receipt of the purchased green coffee or apply the derivative instruments to purchase orders effectively fixing the cost of in-bound green coffee purchases. As of June 30, 2024 and 2023, we had 0.1 million and 3.9 million pounds of green coffee covered under coffee-related derivative instruments, respectively. We do not purchase any derivative instruments to hedge cost fluctuations of any commodities other than green coffee.

The fair value of derivative instruments is based upon broker quotes. We account for certain coffee-related derivative instruments as accounting hedges in order to minimize the volatility created in our quarterly results from utilizing these derivative contracts and to improve comparability between reporting periods. The change in fair value of the derivative is reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“AOCI”) on our consolidated balance sheet and subsequently reclassified into cost of goods sold in the period or periods when the hedged transaction affects earnings. At June 30, 2024, none of our outstanding coffee-related derivative instruments, were designated as cash flow hedges. At June 30, 2023, approximately 40% of our outstanding coffee-related derivative instruments, representing 1.5 million pounds of forecasted green coffee purchases, were designated as cash flow hedges. The portion of open hedging contracts that are not designated as accounting hedges are marked to period-end market price and unrealized gains or losses based on whether the period-end market price was higher or lower than the price we locked-in are recognized in our financial results.

Single Employer Pension Plan

The estimation of our single employer Farmer Bros. pension plan requires that we make use of various actuarial assumptions such as discount rates and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. Material changes in pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions. Plan obligations and expenses are based on existing retirement plan provisions.

The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors:

•Discount rates. We utilize a yield curve analysis to determine the discount rates for our defined benefit plans’ obligations. The yield curve considers pricing and yield information for high quality bonds with maturities matched to estimated payouts of future pension benefits.

•Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The expected return on plan assets is based on our expectation of the long-term rates of return on each asset class based on the current asset mix of the funds, considering the historical returns earned on the type of assets in the funds. 

The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a change in certain assumptions for the Farmer Bros. pension plan, holding all other assumptions constant:

See Note 12, Employee Benefit Plans, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10‑K for further discussions of our various pension plans.

| | | | | 
---|---|---|---|---|---