. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION.

INTRODUCTION.

FONAR was formed in 1978 to engage in the business of designing, manufacturing and selling MRI scanners. HMCA, a subsidiary of FONAR, provides management services to diagnostic imaging facilities.

FONAR’s principal MRI product is its Upright® MRI (also called Stand-Up® MRI) scanner. The Upright® MRI allows patients to be scanned for the first time under weight-bearing conditions. The Stand-Up® MRI is the only MRI capable of producing images in the weight-bearing state.

At 0.6 Tesla field strength, the Upright® MRI is among the highest field open MRI scanners in the industry, offering non-claustrophobic MRI together with high-field image quality. FONAR’s open MRI scanners were the first high field strength open MRI scanners in the industry.

Page 30

FONAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

HMCA generates revenues from providing comprehensive management services, including development, administration, accounting, billing and collection services, together with office space, medical equipment, supplies and non-medical personnel to its clients. Revenues are in the form of fees which are earned under contracts with HMCA’s clients except for its six Florida subsidiaries which engage in the practice of medicine, and bill and collect fees from patients, insurers and other third-party payors directly.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements that were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Management makes estimates and assumptions when preparing financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect various matters, including:

Our reported amounts of assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets at the dates of the financial statements;

Our disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements; and

Our reported amounts of net revenue and expenses in our consolidated statements of operations during the reporting periods

These estimates involve judgments with respect to numerous factors that are difficult to predict and are beyond management’s control. As a result, actual amounts could differ materially from these estimates.

We believe our critical accounting estimates in the following areas affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Revenue Recognition and Receivable Allowances

The Company’s receivables from the related and non-related professional corporations, as well as those receivables due under fee-for-service contracts at the Florida subsidiaries, are largely dependent on collection of fees from various third-party payers. As described in greater detail in Note 2, we recognize revenue in accordance with ASC 606, as the services are provided.

Medical receivables are due under fee-for-service contracts with third-party payors, such as hospitals, government sponsored healthcare programs, patients legal counsel and directly from patients. The carrying amount of the medical receivable is reduced by contractual allowances and discounts based on the historical experience with each payor class on a per location basis.

Management fee receivable is related to the management fees outstanding from the related and no-related professional corporations (“PCs”) under management agreements. The Company establishes a current expected credit loss (“CECL”) to address the risk that a portion of the contractually obligated management fees receivable from the PCs may not be paid. The PCs may be limited in their ability to pay the full management fees receivable if they do not collect sufficient expected fees from third-party payers and patients. The Company’s management fees are collateralized, individually and collectively, by the assets of the PCs. The CECL is determined based upon the difference between the management fee receivable and the current amount of outstanding fees estimated to be collected by the PCs. The Company’s considerations into the estimate of the PCs fee collection included historical loss rates to pools of receivables with similar risks and characteristics, current and forward looking economic conditions, and the financial condition of each PC.

Page 31

FONAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

We recognize revenue and related costs of revenue from sales contracts for our MRI scanners and major upgrades, under the percentage-of-completion method. Under this method, we recognize revenue and related costs of revenue, as each sub-assembly is completed. Amounts received in advance of our commencement of production are recorded as customer advances.

Income Taxes and Related Tax Asset Valuation Allowances

We qualitatively and quantitatively evaluate the realizability (including both positive and negative evidence) of the net deferred tax assets and assess the valuation allowance periodically. Our evaluation considers the financial condition of the Company and both the business conditions and regulatory environment of the industry. If future taxable income or other factors are not consistent with our expectations, an adjustment to our allowance for net deferred tax assets may be required. For net deferred tax assets we consider estimates of future taxable income, including tax planning strategies, in determining whether our net deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized. Our ability to project future taxable income may be significantly affected by our ability to determine the impact of regulatory changes which could adversely affect our future profits. As a result, the benefits of our net operating loss carry forwards could expire before they are utilized.

At June 30, 2023, the net deferred tax asset was valued at $10,041,960. At June 30, 2024, the net deferred tax asset was valued at $7,223,255.

Long-Lived and Intangible Assets

We depreciate our long-lived assets over their estimated economic useful lives, with the exception of leasehold improvements. With respect to leasehold improvements, we use the shorter of the assets useful lives or the lease term of the facility for which these assets are associated.

We amortize our intangible assets, including patents, and capitalized software development costs, over the shorter of the contractual/legal life or the estimated economic life. Our amortization life for patents and capitalized software development costs is 15 to 17 years and 5 years, respectively.

Goodwill is recorded as a result of business combinations. Management evaluates goodwill, at a minimum, on an annual basis and whenever events and changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Impairment of goodwill is tested by comparing the reporting unit’s carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit. The fair value of a reporting unit is estimated using a combination of the income or discounted cash flows approach and the market approach, which uses comparable market data. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered impaired and a second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. Based on our test for goodwill impairment, we noted no impairment related to goodwill. However, if estimates or the related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges to reduce the carrying amount of goodwill.

We periodically assess the recoverability of long-lived assets, including property and equipment, intangibles and management agreements, when there are indications of potential impairment, based on estimates of undiscounted future cash flows. The amount of impairment is calculated by comparing anticipated discounted future cash flows with the carrying value of the related asset. In performing this analysis, management considers such factors as current results, trends, and future prospects, in addition to other economic factors.

Page 32

FONAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. FISCAL 2024 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2023

In fiscal 2024, we recognized net income of $14.1 million on revenues of $102.9 million, as compared to net income of $12.1 million on revenues of $98.6 million for fiscal 2023. This represents an increase in revenues of 4.3%. Total costs and expenses increased by 3.0%. Our consolidated operating results increased by 11.8% to an operating income of $16.5 million for fiscal 2024 as compared to operating income of $14.8 million for fiscal 2023.

Discussion of Operating Results of Medical Equipment Segment

Fiscal 2024 Compared to Fiscal 2023

Revenues attributable to our medical equipment segment remained constant at $8.3 million in fiscal 2024 and in fiscal 2023, with product sales revenues increasing by 0.8% from $732,000 in fiscal 2023 to $738,000 in fiscal 2024. Service revenue increased by 0.8% from $7.5 million in fiscal 2023 to $7.6 million in fiscal 2024.

Lower reimbursement rates have reduced the demand for our MRI products, resulting in lower sales volumes. As a result of fewer sales, service revenues have decreased since as older scanners are taken out of service, there are fewer new scanners available to sign service contracts.

The operating loss for the medical equipment segment increased from an operating loss of $5.9 million in fiscal 2023 to an operating loss of $7.0 million in fiscal 2024. The losses are attributable most significantly to the fact that costs increased by a greater amount than revenues.

The increase in costs was the result of several factors. We made a significant investment into developing the capacity to service MRI equipment manufactured by third manufacturers through our Opus Diagnostic Services, LLC subsidiary. We made additional investments into sales and marketing of image enhancement software SwiftMRTM pursuant to our distribution agreement with AIRS Medical USA, Inc. We hope these ventures will develop into a viable source of new revenue in the future. We also discontinued the prosecution of two patents that ultimately did not issue, after substantial investment into their pursuit.

Research and development expenses increased to $1.7 million in fiscal 2024 from $1.6 million in fiscal 2023. Our expenses for fiscal 2024 represented continued research and development of various upgrades for the Upright® MRI scanner.

Discussion of Operating Results of Physician and Diagnostic Services Management Segment

Fiscal 2024 Compared to Fiscal 2023

Revenues attributable to the Company’s physician and diagnostic services management segment, HMCA, increased to $94.6 million in fiscal 2024 as compared to $90.4 million in fiscal 2023. The increase in revenues was due to an increase of $4.0 million of patient fees (net of contractual allowances and discounts) from patient and third-party payers recognized by six of the facilities in Florida. Management and other fees increased by $0.1 million.

Page 33

FONAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Cost of revenues as a percentage of the related revenues for our physician and diagnostic services management segment increased from $49.0 million or 54.1% of related revenues for the year ended June 30, 2023 to $53.0 million, or 56.0% of related revenues for the year ended June 30, 2024.

Operating results of this segment increased from operating income of $20.7 million in fiscal 2023 to operating income of $23.5 million in fiscal 2024. The increase is due mainly to increased patient fee revenue due to higher scan volumes. We believe that our efforts to expand and improve the operation of our physician and diagnostic services management segment are directly responsible for the profitability of this segment and our company as a whole.

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, 11.6% of total revenues were derived from contracts with facilities that are currently owned by Timothy Damadian, the Chief Executive Officer of FONAR, and were previously owned and operated by Dr. Raymond V. Damadian until his passing. 12.1% of total revenues were derived from these contracts for the 2023 fiscal year. The agreements with these MRI facilities are for one-year terms which renew automatically on an annual basis, unless terminated. The fees for these sites, which are located in Florida, are flat monthly fees.

Discussion of Certain Consolidated Results of Operations

Fiscal 2024 Compared to Fiscal 2023

Interest and investment income increased in 2024 compared to 2023. We recognized interest income of $2.1 million in 2024 as compared to $1.2 million in fiscal 2023, representing an increase of 74.0%. This is due to the increase in the prime interest rate and the Company placing cash in interest bearing accounts and purchasing short term treasury bills.

Interest expense of $76,997 was recognized in fiscal 2024, as compared to interest expense of $50,131 in fiscal 2023.

The 29.2% non-controlling interest allocations of $3,530,000 and $2,751,000 for fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively, have been calculated by Income from operations, and adding depreciation and amortization net of miscellaneous losses and other income from the Physician and Diagnostic Service Management segment (See Note 16).

While revenue increased by 4.3% selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by 8.6% to $26.9 million in fiscal 2024 from $29.4 million in fiscal 2023. This difference in selling, general and administrative expenses was due to less reserves on management fees and other receivables due to increased scan volume as compared to fiscal 2023.

Revenue from service and repair fees increased from $7.5 million in fiscal 2023 to $7.6 million in fiscal 2024.

Page 34

FONAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Continuing our tradition as the originator of MRI, we remain committed to maintaining our position as the leading innovator of the industry through investing in research and development. In fiscal 2024 we continued our investment in the development of various upgrades for the UPRIGHT® MRI, with an investment of $1,735,949 in research and development, none of which was capitalized, as compared to $1,567,749, none of which was capitalized, in fiscal 2023. The research and development expenditures were approximately 20.8% of revenues attributable to our medical equipment segment and 1.7% of total revenues in 2024, and 18.9% of medical equipment segment revenues and 1.5% of total revenues in fiscal 2023. This represented a 10.7% increase in research and development expenditures in fiscal 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023.

For the physician and diagnostic services management segment, HMCA, revenues increased to $94.6 million in fiscal 2024 as compared to $90.4 million in fiscal 2023. This is primarily attributable to an increase in patient scans resulting from our marketing efforts.

For the fiscal year 2024 the Company recorded an income tax expense of $5.2 million compared with an income tax expense of $3.6 million for 2023. The income tax benefits are attributable to the expected tax benefits associated with the projected realization and utilization of our net state operating losses in future periods. The Company has recorded a deferred tax asset of $7.2 million as of June 30, 2024, primarily relating to the tax benefits from the net state operating loss carry forwards, allowance for credit losses and tax credits available to offset future taxable income. The utilization of these tax benefits is dependent on the Company generating future taxable income and other factors. A partial valuation allowance will be maintained until evidence exists to support that it is no longer needed, (principally related to research and development credits and unrealizable state operating losses). Although the Company is expecting to generate taxable income in future periods, we cannot accurately measure the full impact of the adoption of healthcare regulations, including the impact of continuing changes in MRI scanning reimbursement rates, which could materially impact operations. A partial valuation allowance will be maintained until evidence exists to support that it is no longer needed. As of June 30, 2024, the valuation allowance was $193,000.

We have been taking steps to improve HMCA revenues by our marketing efforts, which focus on the unique capability of our Upright® MRI scanners to scan patients in different positions. We have also been increasing the number of health insurance plans in which our clients participate. Operationally, we have invested in technology that we believe will reduce scan times and improve operational efficiency in the centers that we manage.

Our management fees are dependent on collection by our clients of fees from reimbursements from Medicare, Medicaid, private insurance, no fault and workers’ compensation carriers, self–pay and other third-party payers. The health care industry is experiencing the effects of the federal and state governments’ trend toward cost containment, as governments and other third-party payers seek to impose lower reimbursement and utilization rates and negotiate reduced payment schedules with providers. The cost-containment measures, consolidated with the increasing influence of managed-care payers and competition for patients, have resulted in reduced rates of reimbursement for services provided by our clients from time to time. Our future revenues and results of operations may be adversely impacted by future reductions in reimbursement rates.

Page 35

FONAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Certain third-party payers have proposed and implemented changes in the methods and rates of reimbursement that have had the effect of substantially decreasing reimbursement for diagnostic imaging services that HMCA’s clients provide. To the extent reimbursement from third-party payers is reduced, it will likely have an adverse impact on the rates they pay us, as they would need to reduce the management fees they pay HMCA to offset such decreased reimbursement rates. Furthermore, many commercial health care insurance arrangements are changing, so that individuals bear greater financial responsibility through high deductible plans, co-insurance and higher co-payments, which may result in patients delaying or foregoing medical procedures. More frequently, however, patients are scanned and we experience difficulty in collecting deductibles and co-payments. We expect recent changes to the Florida insurance laws to result in less patients being reimbursed through no-fault auto insurance, resulting in both lower reimbursement rates and a higher rate of uncollectible billings. Further, we believe that the passage of New York Public Health Law Article 49A will have a significant negative impact on our collection rates. We expect that any further changes to the rates or methods of reimbursement for services, which reduce the reimbursement per scan of our clients may partially offset the increases in scan volume we are working to achieve for our clients, and indirectly will result in a decline in our revenues.

In addition, the use of radiology benefit managers, or RBM’s has increased in recent years. It is common practice for health insurance carriers to contract with RBMs to manage utilization of diagnostic imaging procedures for their insureds. In many cases, this leads to lower utilization of imaging procedures based on a determination of medical necessity. The efficacy of RBMs is still a highly controversial topic. We cannot predict whether the use of RBMs will negatively impact our business, but it is possible that our financial position and results of operations could be negatively affected.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash, and cash equivalents increased by 9.9% from $51.3 million at June 30, 2023 to $56.3 million at June 30, 2024.

Cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2024 approximated $14.1 million. Cash provided by operating activities was attributable to the net income of $14.1 million, depreciation and amortization of $4.6 million, provision for credit losses of $1.9 million, deferred income tax expense benefit of $2.8 million which was offset by the increase in accounts, and medical and management fee receivables of $11.7 million.

Cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2024 approximated $851,000. The cash used in investing activities was attributable to purchases of property and equipment of $790,000, purchase of short term investments of $103,000, costs of patents of $33,000, offset by proceeds from sale of equipment of $75,000.

Cash used in financing activities for fiscal 2024 approximated $8.2 million. The principal uses of cash used in financing activities included the repayment of borrowings and capital lease obligations of $45,000, purchase of treasury stock of $2.5 million and distributions to non-controlling interests of $5.6 million.

Total liabilities increased by 15.5% during fiscal 2024, from approximately $49.8 million at June 30, 2023 to approximately $57.5 million at June 30, 2024.

Page 36

FONAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

At June 30, 2024, we had working capital of approximately $122.5 million as compared to working capital of $110.00 million at June 30, 2023, and stockholders’ equity of $156.8 million at June 30, 2024 as compared to stockholders’ equity of $150.8 million at June 30, 2023. For the year ended June 30, 2024, we realized a net income of $14.1 million.

Our principal sources of liquidity are derived from revenues.

Our business plan includes a program for manufacturing and selling our Upright® MRI scanners. In addition, we are enhancing our revenue by participating in the physician and diagnostic services management business through our subsidiary, HMCA. As of June 30, 2024, HMCA manages a total of 42 MRI scanners of which 25 MRI scanners are located in New York and 17 are located in Florida. We have also intensified our marketing activities through the hiring of additional marketers for HMCA’s clients.

Our business plan also calls for a continuing emphasis on providing our customers with enhanced equipment service and maintenance capabilities and delivering state-of-the-art, innovative and high quality equipment upgrades at competitive prices. Fees for on-going service and maintenance from our installed base of scanners were $7.5 million for the year ended June 30, 2023 and $7.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2024.

In order to promote profitability and to reduce demands on our cash and other liquid reserves, we maintain an aggressive program of cost containment. Previously, these measures included consolidating HMCA’s office space with FONAR’s office space and reducing the size of our workforce, compensation and benefits. We continue to attempt to contain expenses across the board, despite significant increases in the cost of labor and materials as the result of inflation. The cost control efforts are intended to enable us to withstand periods of low volumes of MRI scanner sales, by keeping expenditures at levels which can be supported by service revenues and HMCA revenues. To this end, we have formed a subsidiary, Opus Diagnostic Management, LLC, to provide in-house repair and maintenance of third party manufactured MRI equipment that we operate. We hope this entity will contain and eventually reduce the maintenance and repair costs of our equipment fleet, and eventually expand into providing service to outside entities.

Current economic credit conditions have contributed to a slower than optimal business environment. As a result our business may suffer, should the credit markets not improve in the near future. The direct impact of these conditions is not fully known.

Revenues from HMCA have been the principal reason for our profitability, and we have so far been able to maintain and increase such revenues by increasing the number of scans being performed by the sites we manage and those we own, notwithstanding reductions in reimbursement rates from third-party payers. The likelihood and effect of any subsequent reimbursement reductions is not fully known.

Capital expenditures for fiscal 2024 approximated $926,000. Capitalized patent costs were approximately $33,000. Purchases of property and equipment were approximately $790,000. Purchase of short term investments was $103,000.

FONAR has committed to making any material capital expenditures in the 2025 fiscal year by installing an additional scanner in two of its current locations. One is being installed in Florida and is expected to be completed by October 2024 and the other is being installed in New York and is expected to be completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2025.

Page 37

FONAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

The Company believes that its business plan has been responsible for the past five consecutive fiscal years of profitability (fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023, fiscal 2022, fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020) and that its capital resources will be adequate to support operations at current levels through September 30, 2025.

On September 13, 2022, the Company adopted a stock repurchase plan. On September 26, 2022, the Board of Directors has approved up to $9 million to be repurchased under the plan which will be purchased on the open market at prevailing prices. During fiscal 2024, we repurchased 156,206 shares for $2.5 million.

During January 2024 the Company renewed their revolving credit agreement. The terms include borrowing limits of up to $10,000,000 and the agreement was extended to November 14, 2024. The interest rate on unpaid principal remains at 4% along with certain financial covenants still applicable.