\. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

General

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto contained in Item 8 of this Report. See also “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements” preceding Part I, Item 1 of this Report.

Overview

The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, is a value-added distributor, and provides advisory and technical services. Through its vast sales organization, the Company provides its customers with planning, designing, and consulting services related to their commercial laundry operations. The Company sells and/or leases its customers commercial laundry equipment, specializing in washing, drying, finishing, material handling, water heating, power generation, and water reuse applications. In support of the suite of products it offers, the Company sells related parts and accessories. Additionally, through the Company’s robust network of commercial laundry technicians, the Company provides its customers with installation, maintenance, and repair services.

The Company’s customers include government, institutional, industrial, commercial and retail customers. Product purchases made by customers range from parts and accessories, to single or multiple units of equipment, to large complex systems. The Company also provides its customers with the services described above.

Beginning in 2015, the Company implemented a “buy-and-build” growth strategy which includes (i) the consideration and pursuit of acquisitions and other strategic transactions which management believes may complement the Company’s existing business or otherwise offer growth opportunities for, or benefit, the Company and (ii) the implementation of a growth culture at acquired businesses based on the exchange of ideas and business concepts among the management teams of the Company and the acquired businesses as well as through certain additional initiatives, which may include investments in additional sales and service personnel, new product lines, enhanced service operations and capabilities, new and improved facilities, and advanced technologies. See “Buy-and-Build Growth Strategy” below for information regarding business acquisitions consummated during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023 (“fiscal 2023”) and the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 (“fiscal 2024”).

The Company reports its results of operations through a single operating and reportable segment.

Total revenues for fiscal 2024 decreased by less than 1% compared to fiscal 2023. The decrease in revenues during fiscal 2024 is due primarily to the timing of receipt and delivery of products to customers due to construction or other delays which impacted the ability of certain customers to receive products. Additionally, there were large industrial jobs completed during fiscal 2023 which generated significant revenues. These decreases were offset in part by price increases established throughout the Company’s product lines and service offerings aimed at maintaining or increasing margins to cover incremental product and operating cost increases, and revenues generated by businesses acquired by the Company during fiscal 2024 as well as businesses acquired by the Company during fiscal 2023 whose results were consolidated in the Company’s financial statements for all of fiscal 2024 as compared to just the period of fiscal 2023 from the respective closing date of the acquisition through the end of fiscal 2023.


Net income for fiscal 2024 decreased by 42% from fiscal 2023. The decrease in net income was attributable primarily to increases in selling, general, and administrative expenses.

The Company’s operating expenses consist primarily of (a) selling, general and administrative expenses, primarily salaries, and commissions and marketing expenses that are variable and correlate to changes in sales, (b) expenses related to the operation of warehouse facilities, including a fleet of installation and service vehicles, and facility rent, which are payable mostly under non-cancelable operating leases, and (c) operating expenses at the parent company, including compensation expenses, fees for professional services, expenses associated with being a public company, including increased expenses attributable to the Company’s investments for future growth, and expenses in furtherance of the Company’s “buy-and-build” growth strategy.

Buy-and Build Growth Strategy

The Company’s acquisitions under its “buy-and-build” growth strategy described above during fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2024 were as follows:

During fiscal 2023, the Company acquired Massachusetts-based Aldrich Clean-Tech Equipment Corp., North Carolina-based K&B Laundry Service, LLC, Alabama-based Wholesale Commercial Laundry Equipment Company SE, LLC, and Maryland-based Gluno, Inc. (d/b/a Express Parts and Services). The total consideration for these transactions consisted of $2.4 million in cash and the issuance of 24,243 shares of the Company’s common stock.

During fiscal 2024, the Company acquired Pennsylvania-based ALVF, Inc. (d/b/a ALCO Washer Center) and Texas-based Signature Services Corporation (d/b/a Ed Brown Distributors). The total consideration for these transactions consisted of $1.9 million in cash and the issuance of 8,621 shares of the Company’s common stock.

The acquired companies generally distribute commercial, industrial, and vended laundry products and provide installation and maintenance services to the new and replacement segments of the commercial, industrial and vended laundry industry. Acquisitions are generally effected by the Company through a separate wholly-owned subsidiary formed by the Company for the purpose of effecting the transaction, whether by an asset purchase or merger, and operating the acquired business following the transaction. The Company, indirectly through its applicable wholly-owned subsidiary, also assumes certain of the liabilities of the acquired business. The financial position, including assets and liabilities, and results of operations of the acquired businesses following the respective closing dates of the acquisitions are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

In addition to the foregoing, on July 1, 2024, the Company acquired Florida-based Laundry Pro of Florida, Inc. for total consideration of $5.9 million in cash. The financial position, including assets and liabilities, and results of operations of Laundry Pro of Florida, Inc. following the July 1, 2024 closing date of the acquisition will be included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements commencing in the quarter ending September 30, 2024.

See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report for additional information about the acquisitions completed by the Company during fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2024, as well as the subsequent acquisition of Laundry Pro of Florida, Inc.

Consolidated Financial Condition

The Company’s total assets decreased from $253.8 million at June 30, 2023 to $230.7 million at June 30, 2024. The decrease in total assets was primarily attributable to a decrease in current assets, as


described below under “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The Company’s total liabilities decreased from $122.9 million at June 30, 2023 to $94.1 million at June 30, 2024, primarily due to decreases in accounts payable and long-term debt.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company had approximately $4.6 million of cash at June 30, 2024 compared to $5.9 million of cash at June 30, 2023. The decrease in cash was primarily due to optional debt repayments in excess of borrowings under the Company’s credit facility, cash consideration paid in connection with the Company’s business acquisitions during fiscal 2024 and capital expenditures, offset in part by increases to cash generated from operations. The Company’s primary sources of cash are sales of products and services, and borrowings under its credit facility. The Company’s primary uses of cash are purchases of the products sold by the Company, employee related costs, and the cash consideration paid in connection with business acquisitions.

The following table summarizes the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands):

For fiscal 2024, operating activities provided cash of approximately $32.7 million compared to cash provided by operating activities of approximately $0.9 million in fiscal 2023. The $31.8 million increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to decreases in accounts receivable as a result of improved collections and decreases in inventory as result of a tightening supply chain and reduced lead times, offset by decreases in net income and operating liabilities.

Investing activities used cash of approximately $6.8 million during fiscal 2024 compared to approximately $6.0 million in fiscal 2023. The $0.8 million increase in cash used by investing activities is due primarily to a greater amount of cash consideration paid for capital expenditures in fiscal 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023.

Financing activities used cash of approximately $27.2 million in fiscal 2024 compared to cash provided by financing activities of approximately $7.0 million in fiscal 2023. The $34.2 million increase in cash used by financing activities was attributable primarily to optional repayments of borrowings under the Company’s credit facility and a cash dividend paid during fiscal 2024.

The Company is a party, as borrower, to a syndicated credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) in the maximum aggregate principal amount of up to $100 million, with an accordion feature to increase the revolving credit facility by up to $40 million for a total of $140 million. A portion of the revolving credit facility is available for swingline loans of up to a sublimit of $5 million and for the issuance of standby letters of credit of up to a sublimit of $10 million. As of June 30, 2024, $66.0 million was available to borrow under the revolving credit facility.


Borrowings (other than swingline loans) under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate, at the Company’s election at the time of borrowing, equal to (a) the Bloomberg Short-Term Bank Yield Index rate (the “BSBY rate”) plus a margin that ranges from 1.25% to 1.75% depending on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio, which is a ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) (the “Consolidated Leverage Ratio”) or (b) the highest of (i) prime, (ii) the federal funds rate plus 50 basis points, and (iii) the BSBY rate plus 100 basis points (such highest rate, the “Base Rate”), plus a margin that ranges from 0.25% to 0.75% depending on the Consolidated Leverage Ratio. Swingline loans bear interest calculated at the Base Rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.25% to 0.75% depending on the Consolidated Leverage Ratio. During November 2023, Bloomberg Index Services Limited announced it will discontinue the BSBY rate on November 15, 2024. Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, in connection with the discontinuation of the BSBY rate, when determined by the administrative agent under the Credit Agreement, the BSBY rate will be replaced with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) plus a SOFR adjustment ranging from a minimum of 0.11% to a maximum of 0.43%.

The Credit Agreement contains certain covenants, including financial covenants requiring the Company to comply with maximum leverage ratios and minimum interest coverage ratios. The Credit Agreement also contains other provisions which may restrict the Company’s ability to, among other things, dispose of or acquire assets or businesses, incur additional indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares and enter into transactions with affiliates. As of June 30, 2024, the Company was in compliance with its covenants under the Credit Agreement.

The obligations of the Company under the Credit Agreement are collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, and are guaranteed, jointly and severally, by certain of the Company’s subsidiaries.

The Company believes that its existing cash, anticipated cash from operations and funds available under the Company’s Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund its operations and anticipated capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months from the filing of this Report, and thereafter. The Company may also seek to raise funds through the issuance of equity and/or debt securities or the incurrence of additional secured or unsecured indebtedness, including in connection with acquisitions or other transactions pursued by the Company as part of its “buy-and-build” growth strategy.

Off-Balance Sheet Financing

As of June 30, 2024, the Company had no off-balance sheet financing arrangements within the meaning of Item 303(a) of Regulation S-K.

Results of Operations

Revenues

Revenues for fiscal 2024 decreased by approximately $0.6 million (less than 1%) from fiscal 2023. The decrease in revenues during fiscal 2024 is due primarily to the timing of receipt and delivery of products to the Company’s customers due to construction or other delays which impacted the ability of certain customers to receive products. Additionally, there were large industrial jobs completed during the fiscal 2023 which generated significant revenues. These decreases were offset in part by price increases established throughout the Company’s product lines and service offerings aimed at maintaining or


increasing margins to cover incremental product and operating cost increases, and revenues generated by businesses acquired by the Company during fiscal 2024 as well as businesses acquired by the Company during fiscal 2023 whose results were consolidated in the Company’s financial statements for all of fiscal 2024 as compared to just the period of fiscal 2023 from the respective closing date of the acquisition through the end of fiscal 2023.

Cost of Sales and Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Cost of sales, expressed as a percentage of revenues, decreased to 70.2% in fiscal 2024 from 70.7% in fiscal 2023, representing gross margins of 29.8% in fiscal 2024 and 29.3% in fiscal 2023. The decrease in cost of sales, as a percentage of revenues, and increase in gross margin were primarily attributable to favorable changes in product and customer mix. The increase in gross margin is also attributable to the Company’s efforts to drive higher quality sales opportunities from promoting solution selling as a value-added distributor. Longer-term federal government contracts entered into during fiscal 2024 lowered gross margins by 30 basis points.

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by approximately $6.4 million (7%) in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023, primarily due to (a) operating expenses of acquired businesses, including additional operating expenses at the acquired businesses in pursuit of future growth and in connection with the Company’s optimization initiatives, (b) increases in salary, rent, technology costs, professional fees, and insurance costs to support the Company’s growth, and (c) stock compensation, including an increase from the acceleration of the vesting of certain restricted stock awards and restricted stock units in accordance with their terms during fiscal 2024. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 26.5% in fiscal 2024 from 24.6% in fiscal 2023.

Interest Expense

Interest expense, net increased by approximately $0.2 million (9%) in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. The increase is due primarily to increases in the average outstanding debt balance.

Provision for Income Taxes

The Company’s effective income tax rate was 36.4% for fiscal 2024 compared to 30.6% in fiscal 2023. The increase in the effective income tax rate in fiscal 2024 is attributable to an increase in the net impact of permanent book-tax differences resulting primarily from nondeductible compensation and lower net income.

Inflation

Inflation did not have a significant effect on the Company’s results during fiscal 2024 or fiscal 2023. However, the Company faces risks relating to inflation, including the current inflationary trend,


which may have an adverse impact on the market for the Company’s products and services, including that there is no assurance that the Company will be able to effectively increase the price of its products and services to offset increased costs.

Transactions with Related Parties

Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries lease warehouse and office space from one or more of the principals (or former principals) of the Company or its subsidiaries. These leases include the following:

On October 10, 2016, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Western State Design, entered into a lease agreement pursuant to which it leases 17,600 square feet of warehouse and office space from an affiliate of Dennis Mack, a director and employee of the Company, and Tom Marks, Executive Vice President, Business Development and President of the West Region of the Company. The lease had an initial term of five years and provides for two successive three-year renewal terms at the option of the Company. Monthly base rental payments were $12,000 during the initial term of the lease. The Company exercised its option to renew the lease for the first three-year renewal term, which commenced in October 2021. Base rent for the first renewal term is $19,000 per month. In addition to base rent, Western State Design is responsible under the lease for costs related to real estate taxes, utilities, maintenance, repairs and insurance. Payments under this lease totaled approximately $252,000 and $228,000 during fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively.

On October 31, 2017, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Tri-State Technical Services, entered into lease agreements pursuant to which it leases a total of 81,000 square feet of warehouse and office space from an affiliate of Matt Stephenson, former President of Tri-State. Monthly base rental payments totaled $21,000 during the initial terms of the leases. Each lease had an initial term of five years and provides for two successive three-year renewal terms at the option of the Company. The Company exercised its option to renew the leases for the first three-year renewal term, which commenced in October 2022. Base rent for the first renewal term is $25,000. In addition to base rent, Tri-State is responsible under the leases for costs related to real estate taxes, utilities, maintenance, repairs and insurance. From May 1, 2023 through May 31, 2024, Tri-State Technical Services also leased an additional 50,000 square feet of space from Mr. Stephenson for a base rental payment of $15,000 per month. Payments under these leases totaled approximately $493,000 and $306,000 during fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively.

On November 1, 2018, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, AAdvantage Laundry Systems, entered into a lease agreement pursuant to which it leases warehouse and office space from an affiliate of Mike Zuffinetti, former Chief Executive Officer of AAdvantage. Monthly base rental payments under this lease were $26,000 initially. Pursuant to the lease agreement, on January 1, 2019, the lease expanded to cover additional warehouse space and, in connection therewith, monthly base rental payments under this lease increased to $36,000. In addition to base rent, AAdvantage is responsible under the lease for costs related to real estate taxes, utilities, maintenance, repairs and insurance. The lease had an initial term of five years and provides for two successive three-year renewal terms at the option of the Company. The Company exercised its option to renew the lease for the first three-year renewal term. Base rent for the first renewal term is $40,000 per month. Payments under this lease totaled approximately $464,000 and $432,000 during fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively.

On November 3, 2020, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Yankee Equipment Systems, entered into a lease agreement pursuant to which it leases a total of 12,500 square feet of warehouse and office space from an affiliate of Peter Limoncelli, President of Yankee Equipment Systems. Monthly base


rental payments were $11,000 during the initial term of the lease. In addition to base rent, Yankee Equipment Systems is responsible under the lease for costs related to real estate taxes, utilities, maintenance, repairs and insurance. The lease had an initial term of three years and provides for three successive three-year renewal terms at the option of the Company. The Company exercised its option to renew this lease for the first three-year renewal term. Base rent for the first year of the renewal term is $12,500 per month. Payments under this lease totaled approximately $150,000 and $146,000 during fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively.

Critical Accounting Estimates

Use of Estimates

In connection with the preparation of its financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”), the Company makes estimates and assumptions, including those that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. Estimates and assumptions made may not prove to be correct, and actual results may differ from the estimates. The accounting estimates that the Company has identified as critical to its business operations and to an understanding of the Company’s financial statements are set forth below. The critical accounting estimates discussed below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of the Company’s accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP, with no need for management’s judgment in their application. There are also areas in which management’s judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result.

Revenue Recognition

Performance Obligations and Revenue Over Time

Revenue primarily consists of revenues from the sale or leasing of commercial and industrial laundry and dry cleaning equipment and steam and hot water boilers manufactured by others; the sale of related replacement parts and accessories; and the provision of installation and maintenance services. The Company generates revenue primarily from the sale of equipment and parts to customers. Therefore, the majority of the Company’s contracts are short-term in nature and have a single performance obligation (to deliver products), and the Company’s performance obligation is satisfied when control of the product is transferred to the customer. Other contracts contain a combination of equipment sales and services expected to be performed in the near-term, which services are distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. Judgment may be required by management to identify the distinct performance obligations within each contract. Revenue is recognized on these contracts when control transfers to the Company’s customers via shipment of products or provision of services and the Company has the right to receive consideration for these products and services. Additionally, from time to time, the Company enters into longer-termed contracts which provide for the sale of equipment by the Company and the provision by the Company of related installation and construction services. The installation on these types of contracts is usually completed within six to twelve months. The Company recognizes a portion of its revenue over time using the cost-to-cost measure of progress, which measures a contract’s progress toward completion based on the ratio of actual contract costs incurred to date to the Company’s estimated costs at completion adjusted for uninstalled materials, as necessary. Significant judgment may be required by management in the cost estimation process for these contracts, which is based on the knowledge and experience of the Company’s


project managers, subcontractors and financial professionals. Changes in job performance and job conditions are factors that influence estimates of the total contract transaction price, total costs to complete those contracts and the Company’s revenue recognition. The determination of the total estimated cost and progress toward completion requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions. Total estimated costs to complete projects include various costs such as direct labor, material and subcontract costs. Changes in these estimates can have a significant impact on the revenue recognized each period. From time to time, the Company also enters into maintenance and service contracts. These longer-term contracts, maintenance and service contracts have a single performance obligation where revenue is recognized over time using the cost-to-cost measure of progress, which best depicts the continuous transfer of control of goods or services to the customer.

The Company measures revenue, including shipping and handling fees charged to customers, as the amount of consideration it expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for its products or services, net of any taxes collected from customers and subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. Costs associated with shipping and handling activities performed after the customer obtains control are accounted for as fulfillment costs.

Revenue from products transferred to customers at a point in time is recognized when obligations under the terms of the contract with the Company’s customer are satisfied, which generally occurs with the transfer of control upon shipment.

Revenues that are recognized over time include (i) longer-termed contracts that include an equipment purchase with installation and construction services, (ii) maintenance contracts, and (iii) service contracts.

Contract Assets and Liabilities

Contract assets and liabilities are presented in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets. Contract assets consist of unbilled amounts resulting from sales under longer-term contracts when the cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition is utilized and revenue recognized exceeds the amount billed to the customer. As noted above, the cost estimation process for these contracts may require significant judgment by management. The Company typically receives progress payments on sales under longer-term contracts as work progresses, although for some contracts the Company may be entitled to receive an advance payment. Contract assets also include retainage. Retainage represents a portion of the contract amount that has been billed, but for which the contract allows the customer to retain a portion of the billed amount (generally, from 5% to 20% of contract billings) until final contract settlement. Retainage amounts are generally classified as current assets within the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. Retainage that has been billed, but is not due until completion of performance and acceptance by customers, is generally expected to be collected within one year. Contract liabilities consist of advanced payments, billings in excess of costs incurred and deferred revenue.

Goodwill

The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level by first performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If the


reporting unit does not pass the qualitative assessment, then the reporting unit's carrying value is compared to its fair value. If the fair value is determined to be less than the carrying value, a second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss. This step compares the current implied goodwill in the reporting unit to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds the implied goodwill, an impairment is recorded for the excess. The identification and measurement of goodwill impairment involves the estimation of the fair value of the reporting unit and involves uncertainty because management must use judgment in determining appropriate assumptions to be used in the measurement of fair value. The Company performed its annual impairment test on April 1, 2024 and determined there was no impairment.

Customer Relationships, Tradenames and Other Intangible Assets

Customer relationships, tradenames, non-competes, and other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortization. These assets with a finite-life are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated future periods to be benefited (5-10 years). The estimates of fair value of the Company’s indefinite-lived intangibles are based on information available as of the date of the assessment and take into account management’s assumptions about expected future cash flows and other valuation techniques. The Company reviews the recoverability of intangible assets that are amortized based primarily upon an analysis of undiscounted cash flows from the intangible assets. In the event the expected future cash flows become less than the carrying amount of the assets, an impairment loss would be recorded in the period the determination is made based on the fair value of the related assets.

Income Taxes

The Company follows Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) ASC Topic 740, “Income Taxes” (“ASC 740”). Under the asset and liability method of ASC 740, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributed to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Under ASC 740, the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. If it is determined that it is more likely than not that some portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is recognized.

Significant judgment is required in developing the Company’s provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and any valuation allowances that might be required against the deferred tax assets. Management evaluates the Company’s ability to realize its deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis and adjusts its valuation allowance when it believes that it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realized.

See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report for additional information regarding income taxes.

Recently Issued Accounting Guidance

See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report for a description of Recently Issued Accounting Guidance.

