ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere herein. The Management’s Discussion and Analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. When used, the words “believe,” “plan,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “target,” “estimate,” “expect,” and the like, and/or future-tense or conditional constructions (“will,” “may,” “could,” “should,” etc.), or similar expressions, identify certain of these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements in this annual report. Our actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors including, but not limited to, those noted under “Risk Factors” of the reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this annual report on Form 10-K, except as may be required under applicable law.

Overview

AiAdvertising’s primary focus is to disrupt the digital advertising world by offering a solution that harnesses the power of artificial intelligence (AI) to enable marketers to increase productivity, efficiency and performance.

Critical Accounting Policies

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations, including the discussion on liquidity and capital resources, are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management re-evaluates its estimates and judgments, particularly those related to the determination of the estimated recoverable amounts of trade accounts receivable, impairment of long-lived assets, revenue recognition, and deferred tax assets. We believe the following critical accounting policies require more significant judgment and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements.


Among the significant judgments made by management in the preparation of our financial statements are the following:

Revenue Recognition

On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and all subsequent amendments to the ASU (collectively, “ASC 606”), using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of January 1, 2018. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018, are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under Topic 605. Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. The adoption of ASC 606 did not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. See footnote 3 for a disclosure of our use of estimates and judgement, as it relates to revenue recognition.

Included in revenue are costs that are reimbursed by our clients, including third party services, such as photographers and stylists, furniture, supplies, and the largest component, digital advertising. We have determined, based on our review of ASC 606-10-55-39, that the amounts classified as reimbursable costs should be recorded as gross, due to the following factors:

| ● | The Company is primarily in control of the inputs of the project and responsible for the completion of the client contract; 
---|---|--- 

| ● | We have discretion in establishing price; and 
---|---|--- 

| ● | We have discretion in supplier selection. 
---|---|--- 

Accounts Receivable

The Company extends credit to its customers, who are located nationwide. Accounts receivable are customer obligations due under normal trade terms. The Company performs continuing credit evaluations of its customers’ financial condition. Management reviews accounts receivable on a regular basis, based on contracted terms and how recently payments have been received to determine if any such amounts will potentially be uncollected. The Company includes any balances that are determined to be uncollectible in its allowance for doubtful accounts. After all attempts to collect a receivable have failed, the receivable is written off. The balances of the allowance account at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 were $191,889 and $5,619 respectively.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

The Company reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. To determine recoverability of a long-lived asset, management evaluates whether the estimated future undiscounted net cash flows from the asset are less than its carrying amount. If impairment is indicated, the long-lived asset would be written down to fair value. Fair value is determined by an evaluation of available price information at which assets could be bought or sold, including quoted market prices, if available, or the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on reasonable and supportable assumptions.

Indefinite Lived Intangibles and Goodwill Assets

The Company accounts for business combinations under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with ASC 805, “Business Combinations,” where the total purchase price is allocated to the tangible and identified intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The purchase price is allocated using the information currently available, and may be adjusted, up to one year from acquisition date, after obtaining more information regarding, among other things, asset valuations, liabilities assumed and revisions to preliminary estimates. The purchase price in excess of the fair value of the tangible and identified intangible assets acquired less liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill.

The Company tests for indefinite lived intangibles and goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter of each year and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value and may not be recoverable. In accordance with its policies, the Company performed a qualitative assessment of indefinite lived intangibles and goodwill at December 31, 2023 and determined the fair value of each intangible asset and goodwill did not exceed the respective carrying values. Therefore, an impairment of indefinite lived intangibles and goodwill was recognized.


The impairment test conducted by the Company includes an assessment of whether events occurred that may have resulted in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. Because it was determined that events had occurred which effected the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets, the Company conducted the two-step approach to determine the fair value and required adjustment. The steps are as follows:

| ● | Increases in costs, such as labor, materials or other costs that could negatively affect future cash flows. The Company assumed that costs associated with labor, materials, and other costs should be consistent with fair market levels. If the costs were materially higher than fair market levels, then such costs may adversely affect the future cash flows of the Company or reporting units. 
---|---|--- 

| ● | Financial performance, such as negative or declining cash flows, or reductions in revenue may adversely affect recoverability of the recorded value of the intangible assets. During our analysis, the Company assumes that revenues should remain relatively consistent or show gradual growth month-to-month and quarter-to-quarter. If we report revenue declines, instead of increases or flat levels, then such condition may adversely affect the future cash flows of the Company or reporting units. 
---|---|--- 

| ● | Legal, regulatory, contractual, political, business or other factors that could affect future cash flows. During our analysis, the Company assumes that the legal, regulatory, political or business conditions should remain consistent, without placing material pressure on the Company or any of its reporting units. If such conditions were to become materially different than what has been experienced historically, then such conditions may adversely affect the future cash flows of the Company or reporting units. 
---|---|--- 

| ● | Entity-specific events such as losses of management, key personnel, or customers, may adversely affect future cash flows. During our analysis, the Company assumes that members of management, key personnel, and customers will remain consistent period-over-period. If not effectively replaced, the loss of members of management and key employees could adversely affect operations, culture, morale and overall success of the company. In addition, if material revenue from key customers is lost and not replaced, then future cash flows will be adversely affected. 
---|---|--- 

| ● | Industry or market considerations, such as competition, changes in the market, changes in customer dependence on our service offering, or obsolescence could adversely affect the Company or its reporting units. We understand that the market we serve are constantly changing, requiring us to change with it. During our analysis, we assume that we will address new opportunities in service offering and industries served. If we do not make such changes, then we may experience declines in revenue and cash flow, making it difficult to re-capture market share. 
---|---|--- 

| ● | Macroeconomic conditions such as deterioration in general economic conditions or limitations on accessing capital could adversely affect the Company. During our analysis, we acknowledge that macroeconomic factors, such as the economy, may affect our business plan because our customers may reduce budgets for our services. If there are material declines in the economy, which lead to reductions in revenue then such conditions may adversely affect the Company. 
---|---|--- 

Goodwill and Intangible assets are comprised of the following, presented as net of amortization:


Business Combinations

The Company allocates the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from acquired customer lists, acquired technology, and trade names from a market participant perspective, useful lives and discount rates. Management’s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. During the measurement period, which is one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to earnings.

Fair value of financial instruments

The Company’s financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities are carried at cost, which approximates their fair value, due to the relatively short maturity of these instruments. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company’s notes payable had stated borrowing rates that were consistent with those currently available to the Company and, accordingly, the Company believes the carrying value of these debt instruments approximated their fair value. As of December 31, 2023 the Company has zero note payables.

Fair value is defined as the price to sell an asset or transfer a liability, between market participants at the measurement date. Fair value measurements assume that the asset or liability is exchanged in an orderly manner, the exchange is in the principal market for that asset or liability, and the market participants are independent, knowledgeable, able and willing to transact an exchange. Fair value accounting and reporting establishes a framework for measuring fair value by creating a hierarchy for observable independent market inputs and unobservable market assumptions and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. Considerable judgment is required to interpret the market data used to develop fair value estimates. As such, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized in a current exchange. The use of different market assumptions and/or estimation methods could have a material effect on the estimated fair value.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

None

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

The Company does not elect to delay complying with any new or revised accounting standards, but to apply all standards required of public companies, according to those required application dates.

Management reviewed accounting pronouncements issued during the year ended December 31, 2023, and no pronouncements were adopted during the period.


Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2023, compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2022

REVENUE

Total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023, increased by $1,426,660 to $8,170,957, compared to $6,744,297 for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to new customer wins, but additional growth from current customers was additive as well. Benefits of our Campaign Performance Platform and its targeting capabilities are garnering interest among new clients as cookie-based tracking becomes more in doubt.

COST OF REVENUE

Cost of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023, increased by $706,167 to $8,018,382, compared to $7,312,215 for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to the increase in digital ad costs and salaries.

SELLING, GENERAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

SG&A expenses for the year ended December 31, 2023, decreased by $1,099,233 to $6,852,960 compared to $7,952,193 for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in employment levels, discretionary spending, and more efficient operations.

OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE

Total other income and expense for the year ended December 31, 2023, increased by $404,839 to net other income of $435,026 compared to net other income of $30,187 for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in net other expense was primarily due to the receipt of employee retention credits for maintaining employment levels through the COVID-19 crisis.

NET LOSS

The net loss for the year ended December 31, 2023, was $6,265,359, compared to the net loss of $8,489,924 for the year ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of $2,224,565. The decrease in net loss for the period was primarily due to increased revenue generated through a reduced cost structure during the year ended December 31, 2023.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The Company had a net working capital deficit of ($1,493,914) at December 31, 2023, compared to a net working capital of ($2,684,592) at December 31, 2022. 

Cash flow used in operating activities was $5,542,258 for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to cash flow used in operating activities of $4,875,539 for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in cash flow used in operating activities of $666,719 was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable from revenue growth in the fourth quarter, reduced accounts payable from better liquidity reserves compared to a year ago and reduced deferred revenue at year-end.

Cash flow used in investing activities was $2,102 for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to cash flow provided in investing activities of $4,224 for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in cash flow used in investing activities of $6,326 was due to a decrease in capital expenditures during the year-ended 2023.


Cash flow provided by financing activities was $5,599,428 for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to cash flow provided by financing activities of $1,033,884 for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in cash flow provided by financing activities of $4,565,544 was due to the sale of Series I Preferred stock to Hexagon Partners for $5 million, partially offset by reduced common stock sales during 2023 compared to 2022.

Liquidity is the ability of a company to generate funds to support its current and future operations, satisfy its obligations, and otherwise operate on an ongoing basis. Significant factors in the management of liquidity are funds generated by operations, levels of accounts receivable and accounts payable and capital expenditures.

As of December 31, 2023, the Company had equity line financing relationship with one investor. During the current period, the investor provides short-term financing under a stock purchase arrangement disclosed in footnote 10. The Company does not have any long-term sources of liquidity. As of December 31, 2023, there were no unused sources of liquidity, nor were there any commitments of material capital expenditures.

The Company has negative monthly cash flows from operations of approximately $200,000. The Company’s current cash is not sufficient to sustain the Company’s operations for 12 months without additional financing. To satisfy cash needs, the Company relies on various borrowing mechanisms to fund operations and service debt, as discussed above.

The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis of accounting, which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets and liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. Management believes that our current cash flow will not sustain our operations and obligations as they become due nor will they provide sufficient resources to allow the development of our core business operations without additional financing. The Company anticipates that it will raise additional capital through investments from our existing shareholders, prospective new investors and future revenue generated by our operations.

Any additional capital we may raise through the sale of equity or equity-backed securities may dilute current stockholders’ ownership percentages and could also result in a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities. The terms of the securities issued by us in future capital transactions may be more favorable to new investors and may include preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities which may have a further dilutive effect.

Furthermore, any additional debt or equity or other financing that we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to obtain required additional capital, we may have to curtail our growth plans or cut back on existing business. Further, we may not be able to continue operations if we do not generate sufficient revenues from operations.

We may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely impact our reported financial results.

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE