, the financial statements and accompanying notes, and this report. 

Our primary business activity is providing private-label contract manufacturing services to companies that market and distribute vitamins, minerals, herbs and other nutritional supplements, as well as other health care products, to consumers both within and outside the U.S. Historically, our revenue has been largely dependent on sales to two or three private-label contract manufacturing customers and subject to variations in the timing of such customers’ orders, which in turn is impacted by such customers’ internal marketing programs, supply chain management, entry into new markets, new product introductions, the demand for such customers’ products, and general industry and economic conditions. Our revenue also includes raw material sales, royalty and licensing revenue generated from our patent estate pursuant to license and supply agreements with third parties for the distribution and use of the ingredient known as beta-alanine sold under our CarnoSyn® and SR CarnoSyn® trademarks.

A cornerstone of our business strategy is to achieve long-term growth and profitability and to diversify our sales base. We have sought and expect to continue to seek to diversify our sales by developing relationships with additional, quality-oriented, private-label contract manufacturing customers, and commercializing our patent estate through sales of beta-alanine under our CarnoSyn® and SR CarnoSyn® trade names, royalties from license agreements, and potentially additional contract manufacturing opportunities with licensees.

During fiscal 2024, our consolidated net sales were 26% lower than in fiscal 2023. Private-label contract manufacturing sales decreased 27% primarily due to reduced orders from several of our larger customers associated with their efforts to reduce excess on-hand inventory, partially offset by increased shipments from other existing customers and shipments to new customers. Sales were also negatively impacted by Euro to USD exchange rates. Our foreign currency exchange rates as applied to sales denominated in Euro decreased to a weighted average of 1.09 EUR/USD in fiscal 2024 compared to a weighted average of 1.13 EUR/USD in fiscal 2023. Revenue concentration from our largest private-label contract manufacturing customer as a percentage of our total net sales was 42% in fiscal 2024, and revenue concentration from our largest private-label contract manufacturing customer as a percentage of total net sales in fiscal 2023 was 40%.

During fiscal 2024, patent and trademark licensing revenue decreased 3% to $8.4 million as compared to $8.7 million for fiscal 2023. The decrease in patent and trademark licensing revenue was primarily due to increased volume rebates partially offset by increased royalty income.

We continue to invest in research and development for the expansion of our CarnoSyn® product offerings. We believe SR CarnoSyn® may provide a unique opportunity within the growing Wellness and Healthy Aging markets but acceptance of this product offering has been limited as we only offer this product in tablet form. In August 2024, we announced our new product called TriBsyn™. We believe TriBsyn™ may allow us to better penetrate the Wellness and Healthy Aging channel. This groundbreaking new product is a carnosine booster that utilizes CarnoSyn® beta-alanine and other patent-pending technology to increase beta-alanine bioavailability and absorption while effectively eliminating beta-alanine related paresthesia. This product is available as a raw material powder, which allows formulation flexibility for our customers. The elimination of paresthesia while maintaining efficacy of dosage creates a new opportunity to reach segments of the market that to date have been untapped, including older adults, vegetarians, and vegans. We believe our efforts to refine our formulations and product offerings will be positively received and result in significant opportunity for increased sales of our patented products. We are also working on several additional innovations that could lead to new patentable products for CarnoSyn® Brands in the future.

To protect and grow our CarnoSyn® product offerings, we incurred litigation and patent compliance expenses of approximately $0.2 million during fiscal 2024 and $0.2 million during fiscal 2023. Our legal expense associated with our CarnoSyn® business has remained low as we have no active litigation, and the current run-rate of expenses is primarily related to maintenance of our patent and trademark estate. Our ability to maintain or further increase our beta-alanine royalty and licensing revenue will depend in large part on our ability to develop a market for our sustained release form of beta-alanine marketed under our SR CarnoSyn® trademark and our new TriBsyn™ product, maintain our patent rights, the availability and the cost of the raw material when and in the amounts needed, the ability to expand distribution of beta-alanine to new and existing customers, and continued compliance by third parties with our license agreements and our patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights. During fiscal 2025, we will continue our sales and marketing activities to consumers, customers, potential customers, and brand owners on multiple platforms to promote and reinforce the features and benefits of utilizing CarnoSyn®, SR CarnoSyn® and TriBsyn™ beta-alanine products.

We experienced a loss during fiscal 2024 that was primarily due to a slowdown across our private-label contract manufacturing segment. On August 16, 2023, we announced the temporary closure of our high-speed powder processing facility in Carlsbad, California due to excess inventory on hand at one of our largest customers and their efforts to rebalance supply and demand. We reopened this facility in May 2024. Although our overall sales forecast for fiscal 2025 includes a significant increase in sales as compared to fiscal 2024, we currently anticipate we will experience a net loss in the first half of fiscal 2025, net income in the second half of fiscal 2025, and we will break-even or have a slight profit for the full fiscal 2025 year.

During fiscal 2025, we plan to continue our focus on:

Discussion of Critical Accounting Estimates

We have identified the following as our most critical accounting estimates, which are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results, and that require management’s most subjective and complex judgments. Information regarding our other significant accounting estimates and policies are disclosed in Note A, Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Revenue Recognition — Revenue is measured as the net amount of consideration expected to be received in exchange for fulfilling one or more performance obligations. For certain contracts with volume rebates, our estimates of future sales used to assess the volume rebate estimates are subject to a high degree of judgement and may differ from actual sales due to, among other things, changes in customer orders and raw material availability.

Results of Operations 

The following table sets forth selected consolidated operating results for each of the last two fiscal years, presented as a percentage of net sales (dollars in thousands).

Private-label contract manufacturing sales decreased 27% primarily due to reduced orders from several of our larger customers associated with their continued efforts to reduce excess on-hand inventory, partially offset by increased shipments to other existing customers and shipments to new customers. Sales were also negatively impacted by Euro to USD exchange rates. Our foreign currency exchange rates as applied to sales denominated in Euro decreased to a weighted average of 1.09 EUR/USD in fiscal 2024 compared to a weighted average of 1.13 EUR/USD in fiscal 2023. Revenue concentration from our largest private-label contract manufacturing customer as a percentage of our total net sales was 42% in fiscal 2024, and revenue concentration from our largest private-label contract manufacturing customer as a percentage of total net sales in fiscal 2023 was 40%.

Net sales from our patent and trademark licensing segment decreased 3% during fiscal 2024. The decrease in patent and trademark licensing revenue was primarily due to increased volume rebates partially offset by increased royalty income.

The change in gross profit margin for the year ended June 30, 2024, was as follows:

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $2.0 million, or 15% to $15.4 million in fiscal 2024 as compared to $13.5 million in fiscal 2023. Our fiscal 2023 expense included a $1.3 million benefit recorded related to our Employee Retention Tax Credit filing and a $1.4 million bad debt recovery associated with a settlement we agreed to with a former customer whose balance was written-off in a prior year while fiscal 2024 did not include any such items. Excluding the non-recurring items, the remainder of selling, general and administrative expenses decreased in fiscal 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023 primarily due to a decrease in advertising, promotion, and sales commission expenses.

Other loss, net, decreased $0.2 million during fiscal 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023. The decrease is primarily associated to an increase in interest income and a decrease in interest expense related to reduced usage of our line of credit in fiscal 2024.

We recorded an income tax benefit of $2.2 million during fiscal 2024 as compared to tax expense of $1.0 million in fiscal 2023. The change in our income tax provision between fiscal 2024 and 2023 is primarily driven by our pre-tax income changing from income in fiscal 2023 to a loss in fiscal 2024, which was partially offset by a lower effective tax rate. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by decreases in Global Low-Taxed Intangible Income associated with our Swiss operations and changes in apportionment allocation of income to state jurisdictions offset by an increase in available business credits in the U.S.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our primary sources of liquidity and capital resources are cash flows provided by operating activities and the availability of borrowings under our credit facilities. Net cash used in operating activities was $1.5 million in fiscal 2024 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $7.0 million in fiscal 2023.

At June 30, 2024, changes in accounts receivable used $9.8 million in cash compared to providing $11.8 million in fiscal 2023. The increase in cash used by accounts receivable during fiscal 2024 primarily resulted from timing of sales and the related collections. Days sales outstanding increased to 38 days during fiscal 2024 compared to 29 days during fiscal 2023, primarily due to customer sales mix and timing of sales and the related collections.

Inventory provided $5.4 million in cash during fiscal 2024 compared to providing $2.8 million in fiscal 2023. The change in cash activity from inventory was primarily related to the difference in the amount and timing of orders and anticipated sales in fiscal year 2024 as compared to fiscal year 2023. Changes in accounts payable and accrued liabilities provided $5.4 million in cash during fiscal 2024 compared to using $8.6 million during fiscal 2023. The change in cash flow activity related to accounts payable and accrued liabilities is primarily due to the timing of inventory receipts and payments.

Cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2024 was $3.0 million compared to $13.5 million in fiscal 2023. The primary reason for this change is due to reduced capital expenditures. Fiscal 2023 included residual capital improvement expenditures associated with our new manufacturing and warehouse facility in Carlsbad, California that was completed in fiscal 2023. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2024 included normal expenditures to support equipment and activities in our facilities in California and Switzerland.

Cash provided in financing activities in fiscal 2024 was $2.9 million, compared to $1.8 million used in fiscal 2023. The change in financing activities includes $3.4 million of outstanding short-term borrowing on our line of credit in fiscal 2024 offset by a reduction of stock repurchase activity which totaled $0.2 million in 2024 as compared to $1.5 million in fiscal 2023.

At June 30, 2024, we had $12.0 million of borrowing capacity on our credit facility of which we had outstanding borrowings of $3.4 million. We also owed $9.2 million on a term loan that was borrowed as part of the purchase of our new Carlsbad, California manufacturing facility in August 2021. At June 30, 2023 we had no outstanding balances due and $20.0 million available in connection with our line of credit. We also owed $9.5 million on a term loan that was borrowed as part of the purchase of our new Carlsbad, California manufacturing facility in August 2021.

At June 30, 2024, we were in compliance with the financial and other covenants as modified by the Fourth Amendment to our credit facility.

As of June 30, 2024, we had $12.0 million in cash and cash equivalents which was held by NAIE. Overall, we believe our available cash, cash equivalents, potential cash flows from operations, and our line of credit will be sufficient to fund our current working capital needs and capital expenditures through at least the next 12 months. We anticipate we will not be able to comply with all of the covenants required under the modified Credit Agreement in the first half of fiscal 2025. We have advised our lender and are currently negotiating a potential revised line of credit. There can be no assurance we will be able to successfully complete the negotiation of a revised credit facility, or what the differences in amount, cost and other factors may be. Please see Note F in Item 8 of this report for terms of our current modified line of credit.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

As of June 30, 2024, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet debt nor did we have any transactions, arrangements, obligations (including contingent obligations) or other relationships with any unconsolidated entities or other persons, in each case that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, capital resources, or significant components of revenue or expenses material to investors.

Inflation 

During fiscal 2024, we experienced continued price increases for product raw material, and other increased operational costs related to inflationary pressure though to a lesser degree than in fiscal 2023. We currently believe increasing raw material and product cost pricing pressures will continue throughout fiscal 2025 as a result of limited supplies of various ingredients, the effects of higher labor and transportation costs, interest rates, and global fuel and energy costs. We anticipate current inflation rates will have a negative impact on our fiscal 2025 operations, and we are monitoring the drivers and working with suppliers and customers to mitigate the impact on our results.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

A discussion of recent accounting pronouncements is included under Note A in the notes to our consolidated financial statements which are included under Item 8 of this report.