Item 6\. Reserved.

Not applicable.

Item 7\. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements, related notes included thereto and Item 1A., “Risk Factors,” appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the discussion and analysis of our 2023 financial condition and results of operations compared to 2024, refer to Item 7., “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2024.

NEGATIVE EFFECTS OF THE PUBLIC PERCEPTION OF SAN FRANCISCO

The San Francisco hospitality community continues to struggle with the perception that the city is plagued with homelessness, open air drug use, dirty streets, rampant crime, and an exodus of business and retail establishments. While these issues do exist, they are not anywhere near the levels at which people outside of the city believe them to be including those responsible for travel for organizations and individual leisure travelers. We know this to be true as our sales team along with the sales team of SF Travel report these concerns as the biggest impact on companies choosing not to bring their events to San Francisco. The city has done a great job of cleaning up the streets and is just getting started on clearing out homeless encampments, that will take time but should help the perception of city to those looking at us as a potential destination. Compounding the issue is a tight Mayoral race in which all the candidates, with the exception of one, the incumbent, are looking to play up these issues in an effort to get them elected by highlighting the shortcomings of the city. Many of the positive stories coming out about the city and its recovery, including the explosion of AI and the companies at the forefront of it based out of San Francisco are helping to change the narrative back to one of innovation and the future of technology.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The Company’s principal source of revenue continues to be derived from its ownership in Justice Operating Company, LLC (“Operating”) inclusive of hotel room revenue, food and beverage revenue, garage revenue, and revenue from other operating departments. Operating owns the Hotel and related facilities, including a five-level underground parking garage. The financial statements of Operating have been consolidated with those of the Company.

Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024, Compared to Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2023

The Company had a pre-tax net loss of $11,374,000 and net loss of $11,375,000 for the year ended June 30, 2024 compared to net pre-tax loss of $5,291,000 and net loss of $13,203,000 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The Company had an income tax provision expense adjustment of $7,912,000 at June 30, 2023 mainly due to a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. The increase in pre-tax loss during June 30, 2024 over 2023, was as a result of increased operating expenses, increased mortgage interest expense from the 4% default additional interest rate on the senior and mezzanine loans as provided in the Forbearance Agreement entered into with its senior and mezzanine lenders retroactive to January 1, 2024 and an increase in related party accrued interest expense due to a higher balance due Intergroup.

The Company had net loss from Hotel operations of $9,423,000 for the year ended June 30, 2024 compared to net loss of $3,337,000 for the year ended June 30, 2023. The change was primarily attributable to a $1,682,000 increase in operating expenses and the $2,940,000 increase in interest expense-mortgages during period ended June 30, 2024.

The following table sets forth a more detailed presentation of Hotel operations for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023:

For the year ended June 30, 2024, the Hotel had operating income of $5,747,000 before interest, depreciation, and amortization on total operating revenues of $41,886,000. The following table sets forth the monthly average occupancy percentage of the Hotel for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023.

Beginning in November 2022, the occupancy of our hotel has been reduced by approximately 13% -18% every month to reflect the “out-of-order” rooms that were being renovated at any given time. As of June 30, 2024 the guestroom renovation was completed. Additionally, 14 guest rooms will be added during fiscal year 2025 to inventory as a result of renovating such rooms which had been repurposed for administrative offices in past years.

Total operating expenses increased by $1,682,000 due to increase in rooms, food and beverage, salaries and wages, utilities, credit card commissions, and franchise fees.

The following table sets forth the average daily room rate, average occupancy percentage and room revenue per available room (“RevPAR”) of the Hotel for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023.

The Hotel’s revenues decreased by less than 1% year over year. Average daily rate remained the same, average occupancy decreased 1%, and RevPAR decreased by $3 for the twelve months ended June 30, 2024 compared to the twelve months ended June 30, 2023.

The Hotel started its’ full renovation of all guest rooms and suites mid-November 2022 and completed the renovation by June 30, 2024.

The Company had a net loss on marketable securities of $122,000 for the year ended June 30, 2024 compared to a net gain on marketable securities of $51,000 for the year ended June 30, 2023. For the year ended June 30, 2024, the Company had a net realized loss of $39,000 and a net unrealized loss of $83,000. For the year ended June 30, 2023, the Company had a net realized loss of $137,000 and a net unrealized gain of $188,000. Gains and losses on marketable securities may fluctuate significantly from period to period in the future. However, the amount of gain or loss on marketable securities for any given period may have no predictive value and variations in amount from period to period may have no analytical value. For a more detailed description of the composition of the Company’s marketable securities see the Marketable Securities section below.

The Company had no other investments at June 30, 2024 and 2023.

The Company consolidates Justice (Hotel) for financial reporting purposes and is taxed on its Hotel operations. The Company does not record an income tax benefit from its pre-tax losses due to its continued operating losses during the past three consecutive taxable years. For the year ended June 30, 2023 a $7,912,000 income tax expense was recorded due to the setup of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets.

MARKETABLE SECURITIES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS

As of June 30, 2024 and 2023, the Company had investments in marketable equity securities of $209,000 and $359,000, respectively. The following table shows the composition of the Company’s marketable securities portfolio by selected industry groups:

The following table shows the net gain or loss on the Company’s marketable securities and the associated margin interest and trading expenses for the respective years.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL SOURCES

The Company had cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $4,775,000 and $5,206,000 as of June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The Company had marketable securities, net of margin due to securities broker, of $209,000 and $359,000 as of June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. These marketable securities are short-term investments and liquid in nature.

On December 16, 2020, Justice and InterGroup entered into a loan modification agreement which increased Justice’s borrowing from InterGroup as needed up to $10,000,000 and extended the maturity date of the loan to July 31, 2021. As of the date of this report, the maturity date was extended to July 31, 2025. Upon the dissolution of Justice in December 2021, Portsmouth assumed Justice’s note payable to InterGroup in the amount of $11,350,000. On December 31, 2021, Portsmouth and InterGroup entered into a loan modification agreement which increased Portsmouth’s borrowing from InterGroup as needed up to $16,000,000. In July 2023, Portsmouth and InterGroup entered into a new loan modification agreement which increased Portsmouth’s borrowing from InterGroup up to $20,000,000. In March 2024, Portsmouth and InterGroup entered into a loan modification agreement which increased Portsmouth’s borrowing amount to $30,000,000. Portsmouth agreed to a 0.5% loan modification fee for the increased borrowing of $10,000,000 payable to InterGroup. During the fiscal year ending June 30, 2024 and 2023, InterGroup advanced to the Hotel $10,793,000 and $1,500,000, respectively, to fund its hotel operations. As of June 30, 2024 and 2023, the amounts due to InterGroup were $26,493,000 and $15,700,000, respectively. The Company has not made any paid-downs to its note payable to InterGroup. The Company could amend its by-laws and increase the number of authorized shares to issue additional shares to raise capital in the public markets if needed.

Our known short-term liquidity requirements primarily consist of funds necessary to pay for operating and other expenditures, including management and franchise fees, corporate expenses, payroll and related costs, taxes, interest and principal payments on our outstanding indebtedness, and repairs and maintenance of the Hotel.

Our long-term liquidity requirements primarily consist of funds necessary to pay for scheduled debt maturities and capital improvements of the Hotel. We will continue to finance our business activities primarily with existing cash, including from the activities described above, and cash generated from our operations. The objectives of our cash management policy are to maintain existing leverage levels and the availability of liquidity, while minimizing operational costs. We believe that our cash on hand, along with other potential sources of liquidity that management may be able to obtain, will be sufficient to fund our working capital needs. As well as our capital lease and debt obligations, even if current levels of occupancy and revenue per occupied room (“RevPAR”, calculated by multiplying the hotel’s average daily room rate by its occupancy percentage) were to persist for at least the next twelve months and beyond. However, there can be no guarantee that management will be successful with its plan.

Going Concern

The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. As discussed in Note 9 – Mortgage Notes Payable, as of June 30, 2024, the outstanding balance consists of a senior mortgage loan and mezzanine loan totaling $100,783,000, net of debt issuance costs amounting to $679,000. Both loans matured on January 1, 2024, in addition, the Company has recurring losses and has an accumulated deficit of $117,102,000 which includes a $64,100,000 increase adjustment made in December 2013 as a result of the partnership redemption.

Due to these factors and the Company’s ability to successfully refinance the debt on favorable terms in the current lending environment gives rise to substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for one year after the financial statement issuance date.

On January 4, 2024, the Company was made aware of a notice of default (the “Notice”) issued by its senior loan special servicer LNR Partners, LLC to Justice Operating Company, LLC which is the wholly owned subsidiary of Portsmouth. The Notice states that the lender has rights as a result of such defaults, including, but not limited to, acceleration of the loans, foreclosure on collateral and other rights and remedies under the loan documents and otherwise available under the law. On January 10, 2024, the Company filed the required Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission. During the entire life of the outstanding debt, the Company has made all mortgage payments timely as of the date of maturity and as of June 30, 2024, there were no delinquent amounts due to the senior or mezzanine lenders. On April 29, 2024, the Company entered into forbearance agreements with its senior and mezzanine lenders which establishes, among other customary terms, the new maturity date of January 1, 2025. While the Company successfully entered into the aforementioned forbearance agreements, we continue our efforts to place a longer-term refinancing solution to its current senior mortgage and mezzanine debt with potential lenders. As such, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain additional liquidity when needed or under acceptable terms, if at all.

The Hotel has successfully completed its full guest-rooms renovation over the last 2 years along with public space, fitness center, corridors, and meeting space. With newly renovated rooms in its Competitive Set of hotels (“CompSet”) will allow the Hotel to continue to drive rate and grow RevPAR over the market and its CompSet. The hotel recently received its annual Quality Assurance inspection from Hilton and received the highest score at least in the hotel’s last decade at 94.45% which is an “Outstanding” ranking by Hilton.

Even during the renovation that took out between 2-4 floors or 50-100 guest rooms of inventory at a time, the Hotel maintained an index of over 100%. At the end of the renovation in June 2024, the Hotel’s trailing 12-month index was 109.6%. During the fiscal year ending June 30, 2024, the Hotel’s CompSet achieved a RevPAR of $161.47 while the Hotel had a RevPAR of $176.99. An excellent achievement for our property while it had roughly 13%-18% of its inventory unavailable over this time period. Since the completion of the renovation, the Hotel has increased its lead in RevPAR on the CompSet dramatically. In the two months since completing the renovation, the Hotel has achieved an average RevPAR index of over 150% for both months. While the CompSet has lost over 15% RevPAR; in these two months, the Hotel has grown over 15% in this metric.

The financial statements do not include any adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities, and reported expenses that may be necessary if the Company were unable to continue as a going concern.

MATERIAL CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

The following table provides a summary of the Company’s material financial obligations which also includes interest.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

The Company has no material off balance sheet arrangements.

IMPACT OF INFLATION

Hotel room rates are typically impacted by supply and demand factors, not inflation, since rental of a hotel room is usually for a limited number of nights. Room rates can be, and usually are, adjusted to account for inflationary cost increases. Since Aimbridge has the power and ability under the terms of its management agreement to adjust Hotel room rates on an ongoing basis, there should be minimal impact on partnership revenues due to inflation. For the two most recent fiscal years, the impact of inflation on the Company’s income is not viewed by management as material.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Critical accounting policies are those that are most significant to the portrayal of our financial position and results of operations and require judgments by management in order to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis, including those related to the consolidation of our subsidiaries, to our revenues, allowances for bad debts, accruals, asset impairments, other investments, income taxes and commitments and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. The actual results may differ from these estimates or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions.

INCOME TAXES

Judgment is required in addressing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns (e.g., realization of deferred tax assets, changes in tax laws, or interpretations thereof). In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. A change in the assessment of the outcomes of such matters could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. We evaluate tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return to determine whether they are more likely than not of being sustained, assuming that the tax reporting positions will be examined by taxing authorities with full knowledge of all relevant information, prior to recording the related tax benefit in our consolidated financial statements. If a position does not meet the more likely than not standard, the benefit cannot be recognized. Assumptions, judgment, and the use of estimates are required in determining if the “more likely than not” standard has been met when developing the provision for income taxes. A change in the assessment of the “more likely than not” standard with respect to a position could materially impact our consolidated financial statements.

DEFERRED INCOME TAXES – VALUATION ALLOWANCE

We assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets quarterly and recognize a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some or all of our deferred tax assets are not realizable. This assessment is completed by tax jurisdiction and relies on the weight of both positive and negative evidence available, with significant weight placed on recent financial results. Cumulative pre-tax losses for the three-year period are considered significant objective negative evidence that some or all of our deferred tax assets may not be realizable. Cumulative reported pre-tax income is considered objectively verifiable positive evidence of our ability to generate positive pre-tax income in the future. In accordance with GAAP, when there is a recent history of pre-tax losses, there is little or no weight placed on forecasts for purposes of assessing the recoverability of our deferred tax assets. When necessary, we use systematic and logical methods to estimate when deferred tax liabilities will reverse and generate taxable income and when deferred tax assets will reverse and generate tax deductions. Assumptions, judgment, and the use of estimates are required when scheduling the reversal of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and the exercise is inherently complex and subjective. However, significant judgment will be required to determine the timing and amount of any reversal of the valuation allowance in future periods.

HOTEL ASSETS AND DEFINITE-LIVED INTANGIBLE ASSETS

We evaluate property and equipment, and definite-lived intangible assets for impairment quarterly, and when events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, we evaluate the net book value of the assets by comparing to the projected undiscounted cash flows of the assets. We use judgment to determine whether indications of impairment exist and consider our knowledge of the hospitality industry, historical experience, location of the property, market conditions, and property-specific information available at the time of the assessment. The results of our analysis could vary from period to period depending on how our judgment is applied and the facts and circumstances available at the time of the analysis. When an indicator of impairment exists, judgment is also required in determining the assumptions and estimates to use within the recoverability analysis and when calculating the fair value of the asset or asset group, if applicable. Changes in economic and operating conditions impacting the judgments used could result in impairments to our long-lived assets in future periods. Historically, changes in estimates used in the property and equipment and definite-lived intangible assets impairment assessment process have not resulted in material impairment charges in subsequent periods as a result of changes made to those estimates. There were no indicators of impairment on its hotel investments or intangible assets and accordingly no impairment losses recorded for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative