in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 29, 2023, filed with the SEC on September 7, 2023. 

Revenue

The following table presents the breakdown of revenue between product and services (in millions, except percentages):

Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.

Total revenue for fiscal 2024 includes approximately $1.4 billion relating to the acquisition of Splunk, which consisted of approximately $1.1 billion in product revenue and approximately $240 million in services revenue.

We manage our business primarily on a geographic basis, organized into three geographic segments. Our revenue, which includes product and services for each segment, is summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages):

Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding. 

Total revenue in fiscal 2024 decreased by 6% compared with fiscal 2023. Product revenue decreased by 9% and services revenue increased by 5%. Our total revenue reflected declines across each of our geographic segments.

In addition to the impact of macroeconomic factors, including the IT spending environment and the level of spending by government entities, revenue by segment in a particular period may be significantly impacted by the timing of revenue recognition for complex transactions with multiple performance obligations. In addition, certain customers tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the revenue related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition, which in turn would impact the revenue of the relevant segment.

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)

Product Revenue by Segment

The following table presents the breakdown of product revenue by segment (in millions, except percentages):

Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding. 

Americas

Product revenue in the Americas segment decreased by 8%. The product revenue decrease was driven by declines in the enterprise and service provider and cloud markets, partially offset by growth in the public sector market. The acquisition of Splunk contributed $784 million of product revenue to the Americas segment in fiscal 2024. From a country perspective, product revenue decreased by 7% in the United States, 11% in Canada, 10% in Mexico and 11% in Brazil. 

EMEA

The decrease in product revenue in the EMEA segment of 10% was driven by declines across each of our customer markets. The acquisition of Splunk contributed $228 million of product revenue to the EMEA segment for fiscal 2024. From a country perspective, product revenue decreased by 10% in the United Kingdom, 14% in Germany and 11% in France.

APJC

Product revenue in the APJC segment decreased by 13%, driven by declines across each of our customer markets. The acquisition of Splunk contributed $122 million of product revenue to the APJC segment in fiscal 2024. From a country perspective, product revenue decreased by 8% in Japan, 5% in Australia, 17% in India and 35% in China.

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)

Product Revenue by Category

In addition to the primary view on a geographic basis, we also prepare financial information related to product categories and customer markets for various purposes. Effective fiscal 2024, we began reporting our product revenue in the following categories: Networking, Security, Collaboration, and Observability and conformed our product revenue for prior periods to the current year presentation.

The following table presents product revenue by category (in millions, except percentages):

Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.

Networking

Fiscal 2024 Compared with Fiscal 2023

The Networking product category consists of our core networking technologies of switching, routing, wireless, and servers. Revenue from the Networking product category decreased by 15%, or $5.3 billion. During fiscal 2024, we saw customers scrutinizing spend and needing additional time to implement elevated levels of product shipments received in prior quarters. Revenue declined in both campus switching and data center switching, primarily driven by declines in our Catalyst 9000 series and Nexus 9000 series offerings. We experienced a revenue decline in enterprise routing, although we saw revenue growth in our SD-WAN offerings. The decrease in wireless was primarily driven by our WiFi-6 products and Meraki offerings. We also saw a revenue decline in routed optical networking.

Fiscal 2023 Compared with Fiscal 2022

Revenue from the Networking product category increased by 18%, or $5.3 billion. Revenue grew in both campus switching and data center switching. This was primarily driven by strong growth in our Catalyst 9000 series, Nexus 9000 series and Meraki switching offerings. The increase in enterprise routing was primarily driven by growth in Catalyst 8000 routers, SD-WAN and IoT routing offerings. Wireless grew primarily driven by our WiFi-6 products and Meraki offerings. Revenue in routed optical networking was flat, primarily driven by growth in our Core routing portfolio, including our Cisco 8000 series offerings and growth in our webscale provider market.

Security

Fiscal 2024 Compared with Fiscal 2023

The Security product category consists of our Network Security, Identity and Access Management, SASE and Threat Intelligence, Detection, and Response offerings. Revenue in our Security product category increased by 32%, or $1.2 billion, primarily driven by the contribution of Splunk offerings and growth across the portfolio. The Security product category grew 4%, not including the contribution from Splunk offerings.

Fiscal 2023 Compared with Fiscal 2022

Revenue in the Security product category increased by 4%, or $160 million, primarily driven by growth in our Secure Access Service Edge and Zero Trust offerings.

Collaboration

Fiscal 2024 Compared with Fiscal 2023

The Collaboration product category consists of our Webex Suite, Collaboration Devices, Contact Center and CPaaS offerings. Revenue in our Collaboration product category increased 2%, or $61 million, primarily driven by growth across the portfolio, except our Meetings offering.

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)

Fiscal 2023 Compared with Fiscal 2022

Revenue in the Collaboration product category decreased 9%, or $420 million, primarily driven by declines in Collaboration Devices and Meetings, partially offset by growth in our Calling and Contact Center offerings.

Observability

Fiscal 2024 Compared with Fiscal 2023

The Observability product category consists of our network assurance, monitoring and analytics and observability suite offerings. Revenue in our Observability product category increased by 27%, or $176 million, driven by growth in our ThousandEyes offering and the contribution from Observability Suite, our Splunk offering. Product revenue in the Observability product category increased 15%, not including the contribution from Splunk.

Fiscal 2023 Compared with Fiscal 2022

Revenue in our Observability product category increased 14%, or $80 million, driven by growth in our ThousandEyes and monitoring and analytics offerings.

Services Revenue by Segment

The following table presents the breakdown of services revenue by segment (in millions, except percentages):

Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding. 

Services revenue increased 5%, driven by growth in our solution support, advisory services and software support offerings. The acquisition of Splunk also contributed to the growth in services revenue for fiscal 2024. Services revenue increased across all of our geographic segments. Services revenue grew 3%, not including the contribution from Splunk.

Gross Margin

The following table presents the gross margin for products and services (in millions, except percentages):

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)

Product Gross Margin

The following table summarizes the key factors that contributed to the change in product gross margin percentage from fiscal 2023 to fiscal 2024:

Productivity includes overall manufacturing-related costs, such as component costs, warranty expense, provision for inventory, freight, logistics, shipment volume, and other items not categorized elsewhere.

Product gross margin increased by 2.0 percentage points primarily driven by favorable product mix, productivity benefits, largely driven by lower freight and other costs, and benefits from Splunk. This was partially offset by the amortization of purchased intangible assets primarily related to Splunk, and negative impacts from pricing.

Supply Chain Impacts and Risks

In past periods, we took multiple actions in order to mitigate component shortages and address significant supply constraints. These supply constraints resulted in the need to secure long-term supply and increased inventory supply chain balances compared to historical levels. This in turn has significantly increased our supply chain exposure, which has resulted in negative impacts to our product gross margin in recent periods and may result in further negative impacts in future periods. This exposure includes potential material excess and obsolete or other charges if product demand significantly decreases for a sustained duration, we are unable to generate demand for certain products planned for development, or we are unable to mitigate the remaining supply chain exposures.

Services Gross Margin

Our services gross margin percentage increased by 1.7 percentage points primarily due to higher sales volume, lower headcount-related and delivery costs, lower variable compensation expense and favorable mix of service offerings.

Our services gross margin normally experiences some fluctuations due to various factors such as the timing of contract initiations in our renewals, our strategic investments in headcount, and the resources we deploy to support the overall service business. Other factors include the mix of service offerings, as the gross margin from our advanced services is typically lower than the gross margin from technical support services.

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)

Gross Margin by Segment

The following table presents the total gross margin for each segment (in millions, except percentages):

The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization and impairments of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, significant litigation settlements and other contingencies, charges related to asset impairments and restructurings, and certain other charges. We do not allocate these items to the gross margin for each segment because management does not include such information in measuring the performance of the operating segments. 

Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding. 

We experienced a gross margin percentage increase in our Americas segment due to productivity benefits, favorable product mix and higher services gross margin, partially offset by negative impacts from pricing. 

Gross margin in our EMEA segment increased due to favorable product mix, productivity benefits and higher services gross margin, partially offset by negative impacts from pricing.

The APJC segment gross margin percentage increase was due to favorable product mix and productivity benefits, partially offset by negative impacts from pricing.

Research and Development (“R&D”), Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative (“G&A”) Expenses

R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages):

R&D Expenses

R&D expenses increased due to higher share-based compensation expense, incremental expenses from Splunk, higher cash compensation from acquisitions and higher discretionary spending, partially offset by lower headcount-related expenses and lower variable compensation expense.

We continue to invest in R&D in order to bring a broad range of products to market in a timely fashion. If we believe that we are unable to enter a particular market in a timely manner with internally developed products, we may purchase or license technology from other businesses, or we may partner with or acquire businesses as an alternative to internal R&D. 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)

Sales and Marketing Expenses

Sales and marketing expenses increased primarily due to incremental expenses from Splunk, higher share-based compensation expense, higher discretionary spending, higher headcount-related expenses and higher cash compensation from acquisitions, partially offset by lower contracted services spending and lower variable compensation expense.

G&A Expenses

G&A expenses increased due to higher acquisition-related costs, incremental expenses from Splunk, higher share-based compensation expense, higher discretionary spending and higher headcount-related expenses, partially offset by lower contracted services spending and lower variable compensation expense.

Effect of Foreign Currency

In fiscal 2024, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased the combined R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by approximately $30 million, or 0.2%, compared with fiscal 2023.

Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets

The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets including impairment charges (in millions):

The increase in amortization of purchased intangible assets was primarily due to amortization of purchased intangibles from our recent acquisitions, including $569 million due to the acquisition of Splunk, and impairment charges of $145 million in fiscal 2024. These increases were partially offset by certain purchased intangible assets that became fully amortized. The impairment charges were primarily due to declines in estimated fair value resulting from reductions in or the elimination of expected future cash flows associated with certain of our IPR&D intangible assets.

Restructuring and Other Charges

We recognized total restructuring and other charges, included in operating expenses, of $789 million and $531 million in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively.

In the first quarter of fiscal 2025, we announced a restructuring plan in order to allow us to invest in key growth opportunities and drive more efficiencies in our business. This restructuring plan is expected to impact approximately 7% of our global workforce. The total pre-tax charges are estimated to be up to $1 billion. We expect this plan to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2025.

In the third quarter of fiscal 2024, we initiated a restructuring plan in order to realign the organization and enable further investment in key priority areas, of which approximately 5% of our global workforce would be impacted. In connection with this plan, we incurred charges of $654 million for fiscal 2024 and the plan is substantially complete.

In fiscal 2023, we announced a restructuring plan in order to rebalance the organization and enable further investment in key priority areas. We incurred cumulative charges of $670 million and completed this plan in fiscal 2024.

We expect to reinvest substantially all of the cost savings from these restructuring plans in our key priority areas and key growth opportunities. As a result, the overall cost savings from these restructuring plans are not expected to be material for future periods. 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)

Operating Income

The following table presents our operating income and our operating income as a percentage of revenue (in millions, except percentages):

Operating income decreased by 19%, and as a percentage of revenue operating income decreased by 3.8 percentage points. These changes were primarily from a revenue decrease, incremental operating expenses from Splunk, higher restructuring and other charges and higher amortization of purchased intangible assets, partially offset by a gross margin percentage increase (driven by favorable product mix, productivity benefits, partially offset by negative impacts from pricing).

Interest and Other Income (Loss), Net

Interest Income (Expense), Net The following table summarizes interest income and interest expense (in millions):

Interest income increased driven by a higher average balance of cash and available-for-sale debt investments and higher interest rates. The increase in interest expense was primarily driven by higher interest rates and the issuances of senior notes and commercial paper during fiscal 2024. We incurred incremental net interest expense of approximately $500 million during fiscal 2024 to finance the acquisition of Splunk. We expect lower interest income in future periods due to a lower average balance of cash and available-for-sale debt investments and higher interest expense due to the higher outstanding balance of debt.

Other Income (Loss), Net The components of other income (loss), net, are summarized as follows (in millions):

The change in our other income (loss), net was primarily driven by higher losses in our available-for-sale debt investments and unfavorable impacts from foreign exchange, partially offset by higher gains on our marketable equity investments and lower net losses on our privately held investments.

Provision for Income Taxes 

The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 15.6% for fiscal 2024, compared with 17.7% for fiscal 2023. The net 2.1 percentage points decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to an increase in discrete tax benefits relating to prior year return-to-provision true up and an increase in stock-based compensation windfall benefit.

For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% and for further explanation of our provision for income taxes, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, our capital allocation strategy including stock repurchase program and dividends, our contractual obligations, and certain other commitments and activities on our liquidity and capital resources.

Balance Sheet and Cash Flows

Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents and investments (in millions):

The net decrease in cash and cash equivalents and investments from fiscal 2023 to fiscal 2024 was primarily driven by a net outflow for the acquisition of Splunk of $27.5 billion, cash returned to stockholders in the form of cash dividends of $6.4 billion and repurchases of common stock of $5.8 billion, repayment of debt of $1.8 billion, net cash paid for our other acquisitions, excluding Splunk, of $1.3 billion and capital expenditures of $0.7 billion. These uses of cash were partially offset by the issuance of senior notes for net proceeds of $13.4 billion, net cash provided by operating activities of $10.9 billion and net issuances of commercial paper notes of $10.8 billion. The net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2024 includes the fiscal 2023 federal tax payment of $2.8 billion that was deferred by the IRS as a result of the California floods and the U.S. transition tax payment of $1.4 billion.

We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We classify our investments as short-term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and our available-for-sale debt investment portfolio consisting primarily of high quality investment-grade securities. We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, for acquisitions, for customer financing activities, for working capital needs, and for the repurchase of shares of common stock and payment of dividends as discussed below.

Securities Lending We periodically engage in securities lending activities with certain of our available-for-sale debt investments. These transactions are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis. We require collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets. We engage in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify us against collateral losses. We did not experience any losses in connection with the secured lending of securities during the periods presented. As of July 27, 2024 and July 29, 2023, we had no outstanding securities lending transactions.

Free Cash Flow and Capital Allocation As part of our capital allocation strategy, we target to return a minimum of 50% of our free cash flow annually to our stockholders through cash dividends and repurchases of common stock.

We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less cash used to acquire property and equipment. The following table reconciles our net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow (in millions):

We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, the rate at which products are shipped during the quarter (which we refer to as shipment linearity), the timing and collection of accounts receivable and financing receivables, inventory and supply chain management, 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)

deferred revenue and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. For additional discussion, see “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this report.

We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors because of our intent to return a stated percentage of free cash flow to stockholders in the form of dividends and stock repurchases. We further regard free cash flow as a useful measure because it reflects cash that can be used to, among other things, invest in our business, make strategic acquisitions, repurchase common stock, and pay dividends on our common stock, after deducting capital investments. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance and liquidity is that the free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period. In addition, we have other required uses of cash, including repaying the principal of our outstanding indebtedness. Free cash flow is not a measure calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and should not be regarded in isolation or as an alternative for net cash provided by operating activities or any other measure calculated in accordance with such principles, and other companies may calculate free cash flow in a different manner than we do. 

The following table summarizes the dividends paid and stock repurchases (in millions, except per-share amounts):

On August 14, 2024, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.40 per common share to be paid on October 23, 2024, to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on October 2, 2024. Future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. 

The remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program is approximately $5.2 billion, with no termination date. 

Accounts Receivable, Net The following table summarizes our accounts receivable, net (in millions):

Our accounts receivable net, as of July 27, 2024 increased by approximately 14% compared with the end of fiscal 2023, primarily due to timing and amount of product and service billings at the end of fiscal 2024 compared with the end of fiscal 2023. 

Inventory Supply Chain The following table summarizes our inventories and inventory purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers (in millions):

The following table summarizes our inventory purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers by period (in millions):

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)

Inventory as of July 27, 2024 decreased by 7% and inventory purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers decreased by 29% from our balances at the end of fiscal 2023. The combined decrease of 22% in our inventory and inventory purchase commitments as compared with the end of fiscal 2023 was primarily due to our continued efforts to work with contract manufacturers and suppliers to optimize our inventory and purchase commitment levels.

We have increased our levels of inventory in order to help mitigate risks in our supply chain. We also began increasing our inventory supply chain balances starting in fiscal 2021 in order to address significant supply constraints seen industry-wide. The increases were primarily due to arrangements to secure supply and pricing for certain product components and commitments with contract manufacturers to meet customer demand and to address extended lead times, as well as advance payments with suppliers to secure future supply, as a result of the supply constraints. Our risks of future material excess and obsolete inventory and related losses are further outlined in the Result of Operations—Product Gross Margin section.

We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements and our commitment to securing manufacturing capacity. 

Our inventory purchase commitments are for short-term product manufacturing requirements as well as for commitments to suppliers to secure manufacturing capacity. Certain of our inventory purchase commitments are entered into directly with suppliers and relate to fixed-dollar commitments to secure supply and pricing for certain product components for multi-year periods. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed.

Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence because of supply constraints, rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We believe the amount of our inventory and inventory purchase commitments is appropriate for our current and expected customer demand and revenue levels.

Financing Receivables and Guarantees The following table summarizes our financing receivables (in millions):

Financing Receivables Our financing arrangements include loans and leases. Our loan receivables include customer financing for purchases of our hardware, software and services (including technical support and advanced services), and also may include additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. Lease receivables include sales-type leases. Arrangements related to leases are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Financing receivables decreased by 2% as compared with the end of fiscal 2023.

Financing Guarantees In the normal course of business, third parties may provide financing arrangements to our customers and channel partners under financing programs. The financing arrangements provided by third parties are related to leases and loans and typically have terms of up to three years. In some cases, we provide guarantees to third parties for these lease and loan arrangements. The financing arrangements to channel partners consist of revolving short-term financing provided by third parties, with payment terms generally ranging from 60 to 90 days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of our receivables to the third party. The receivables are derecognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales, and we receive payments for the receivables from the third party based on our standard payment terms. 

The volume of channel partner financing was $27.1 billion, $32.1 billion, and $27.9 billion in fiscal 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners, and in some cases, we guarantee a portion of these arrangements. The balance of the channel partner financing subject to guarantees was $1.2 billion and $1.7 billion as of July 27, 2024 and July 29, 2023, respectively. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners. Historically, our payments under these arrangements have been immaterial. Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees. In either case, the deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the guarantee is removed. As of July 27, 2024, 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)

the total maximum potential future payments related to these guarantees was approximately $127 million, of which approximately $13 million was recorded as deferred revenue.

Borrowings

Senior Notes The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior notes (in millions):

In February 2024, we issued senior notes for an aggregate principal amount of $13.5 billion.

Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of July 27, 2024.

Commercial Paper We have a short-term debt financing program in which up to $15.0 billion is available through the issuance of commercial paper notes. We use the proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes for general corporate purposes. We had $10.9 billion in commercial paper notes outstanding as of July 27, 2024, and no commercial paper notes outstanding as of July 29, 2023.

Credit Facility On February 2, 2024, we entered into an amended and restated 5-year $5.0 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement. The interest rate for the credit agreement is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. The credit agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants, including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio (defined in the agreement as the ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense) of not less than 3.0 to 1.0. As of July 27, 2024, we were in compliance with all associated covenants and we had not borrowed any funds under our credit agreement.

Remaining Performance Obligations The following table presents the breakdown of remaining performance obligations (in millions):

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)

Total remaining performance obligations increased 18% in fiscal 2024. Total remaining performance obligations as of July 27, 2024 includes $3.5 billion related to the acquisition of Splunk. Remaining performance obligations for product increased 27% and remaining performance obligations for services increased 10%, compared to fiscal 2023. We expect approximately 51% of total remaining performance obligations to be recognized as revenue over the next 12 months.

Deferred Revenue The following table presents the breakdown of deferred revenue (in millions):

Total deferred revenue increased 11% in fiscal 2024. The increase in deferred product revenue of 15% was primarily due to the contribution from the Splunk acquisition of $1.7 billion and increased deferrals related to our recurring software offerings. The increase in deferred services revenue of 9% was driven by higher business volume and the impact of contract renewals and the contribution of the Splunk acquisition, partially offset by ongoing amortization of deferred services revenue.

Contractual Obligations

The impact of contractual obligations on our liquidity and capital resources in future periods should be analyzed in conjunction with the factors that impact our cash flows from operations discussed previously. In addition, we plan for and measure our liquidity and capital resources through an annual budgeting process. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at July 27, 2024 (in millions):

Operating Leases For more information on our operating leases, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. Our inventory purchase commitments are for short-term product manufacturing requirements as well as for commitments to suppliers to secure manufacturing capacity. Certain of our inventory purchase commitments are directly with suppliers and relate to fixed-dollar commitments to secure supply and pricing for certain product components for multi-year periods. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. See further discussion in “Inventory Supply Chain.” 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)

Other Purchase Obligations Other purchase obligations represent an estimate of all contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, other than operating leases and commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services. Purchase orders are not included in the preceding table as they typically represent our authorization to purchase rather than binding contractual purchase obligations.

Long-Term Debt The amount of long-term debt in the preceding table represents the principal amount of the respective debt instruments. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Transition Tax Payable Transition tax payable represents future cash tax payments associated with the one-time U.S. transition tax on accumulated earnings for foreign subsidiaries as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“the Tax Act”).

Other Long-Term Liabilities Other long-term liabilities primarily include noncurrent income taxes payable, accrued liabilities for deferred compensation, deferred tax liabilities, and certain other long-term liabilities. Due to the uncertainty in the timing of future payments, our noncurrent income taxes payable of approximately $1.7 billion and deferred tax liabilities of $76 million were presented as one aggregated amount in the total column on a separate line in the preceding table. Noncurrent income taxes payable include uncertain tax positions. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other Commitments

In connection with our acquisitions, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the continued employment with us of certain employees of the acquired entities. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our privately held investments. The funding commitments were $0.2 billion and $0.3 billion as of July 27, 2024 and July 29, 2023, respectively.

In the ordinary course of business, we have privately held investments and provide financing to certain customers. Certain of these investments are considered to be variable interest entities. We evaluate on an ongoing basis our privately held investments and customer financings, and we have determined that as of July 27, 2024 there were no material unconsolidated variable interest entities.

On an ongoing basis, we reassess our privately held investments and customer financings to determine if they are variable interest entities and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary pursuant to the applicable accounting guidance. As a result of this ongoing assessment, we may be required to make additional disclosures or consolidate these entities. Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events.

We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to our channel partners. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners. See the previous discussion of these financing guarantees under “Financing Receivables and Guarantees.”

Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements

Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and committed credit lines will satisfy, through at least the next 12 months, our liquidity requirements, both in total and domestically, including the following: working capital needs (including inventory and other supply related payments), capital expenditures, investment requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, pending acquisitions, future customer financings, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. There are no other transactions, arrangements, or relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect the liquidity and the availability of, as well as our requirements for, capital resources. 

| | | | | 
---|---|---|---|---|---