ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

Statements made in this Form 10-K that are not historical or current facts, which represent the Company's expectations or beliefs including, but not limited to, statements concerning the Company's operations, performance, financial condition, business strategies, and other information, involve substantial risks and uncertainties. The Company's actual results of operations, most of which are beyond the Company's control, could differ materially. These statements often can be identified by the use of terms such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," anticipate," "estimate," or "continue" or the negative thereof. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Any forward-looking statements represent management's best judgment as to what may occur in the future. However, forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and important factors beyond our control that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from historical results of operations and events and those presently anticipated or projected.

Bion disclaims any obligation subsequently to revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements filed with this Report.

BUSINESS OVERVIEW AND PLAN

The Company has been under substantial financial and management stress over the past eighteen months. Covid-related delays during technology pilot development at Buflovak in New York, followed by post-Covid supply chain disruptions during construction of our demonstration facility at Fair Oaks, have led to extreme difficulties in raising needed funds. These delays prevented us from meeting our project development and related capital timelines, and were further compounded by the death (following extended illness) of Dominic Bassani, who most recently served as our COO from May 2022 after serving as our CEO for the prior decade, the subsequent resignation of Bill O’Neill, Dominic’s replacement at the CEO position, effective May 31, 2024, followed by the anticipated retirement of Mark A. Smith, the Company’s President, General Counsel and Chief Financial Officer, effective July 31, 2024.

Since the end of May 2024, a new core leadership team has been installed (see H and I, below) and a short-term funding facility has been implemented (see J, below) while longer term capital solutions are evaluated. Our new leadership team believes the financial and management difficulties Bion has faced are outweighed by the success of our technology demonstration and optimization initiatives at our Fair Oaks facility. This success coincides with clear and growing trends in both sustainable agriculture and clean fuels technology and policy that favor Bion’s technology and business opportunities. Bion leadership believes this confluence of events positions the Company, assuming it aligns with appropriate strategic partners and obtains sufficient financing, to exploit a unique opportunity to participate in transformational change at the intersection of agriculture, renewable energy and clean fuels, clean air and water, and evolving consumer demand.

PLEASE NOTE:

A: The Company is not currently generating any significant revenues. Further, the Company’s anticipated revenues, if any, from existing Projects, JVs and proposed Projects will not be sufficient to meet the Company’s anticipated operational and capital expenditure needs for many years. Current liabilities were approximately $5.8 million at June 30, 2024 which represents an increase of approximately $4.2 million from June 30, 2023 (largely due to an increase in ‘accounts payable and accrued expenses’ totaling approximately $2.1 million and an increase in ‘current debt’ of approximately $2.1 million as a result of the Company’s limited success in raising new financing (equity and/or debt) and existing debt terms becoming current during the recent period combined with continued expenses (including those related to the Initial Project). Similarly, the Company’s cash on hand decreased from approximately $626,000 to approximately $52,000 over the same period. The Company extreme difficulty is obtaining needed funds during the entire 2023 fiscal year has continued throughout the first quarter of the current fiscal year to date. See NOTE 1. Going Concern and Management’s Plans, Plan of Operations and Outlook and ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 11 Subsequent Events (below).

B: Previous management believed that the Initial Project had reached the point where it could be appropriately deemed ‘placed in service’ at January 1, 2024. However, discussions with the key technical and engineering personnel involved at the Initial Project during the recently concluded quarter convinced management that such a characterization was premature as some key modules had not yet been completed and/or fully tested at that date. Additionally, due to some equipment break-downs, the Initial Project was in maintenance mode rather than conducting operations, while the Company awaited required replacement parts and subsequent repairs. This process was slowed by the Company’s ongoing difficulties in raising needed funds for its activities. The Company’s Board of Directors re-evaluated the classification/status of the Initial Project as part of the Company’s annual review process and determined that the Initial Project should have been ‘placed in service’ at the June 30, 2024, fiscal year end.

Further, after extensive discussion between previous management and the Board, it was determined that the ‘carrying value’ of the Initial Project, as of that date, be reduced to $0 on the Company balance sheet, in order to conform with accepted accounting practices. Bion’s technology demonstration system was always planned as a small scale integrated Gen3Tech beef project. Due to covid-related delays and increased capital constraints, it was decided to move quickly to initially construct Phase 1, which was the standalone ARS at Fair Oaks. As matters progressed, including cost overruns, management and financial crises, etc., Bion was unable to proceed further at Fair Oaks. It was anticipated that the ARS would be relocated to another site (potential locations included Ribbonwire Ranch or University of Nebraska-Lincoln) after providing the final design data, where it would be integrated with a small scale Gen3Tech beef facility as originally planned. We recently learned it would not be economically feasible to decommission and disassemble the ARS, then transport, reassemble, and recommission it at another location. Therefore, since the Initial Project is now: i) largely a research & development facility and ii) is located on land subject to a short-term lease, it no longer has commercial value and was written down to $0. As a result, a large ‘one time/non-recurring’ ‘non-cash’ charge of $9,460,425 has been taken by the Company, at that date, which charge reduced the Company shareholders’ equity to ($5,808,501) and resulted in a loss of $11,691,115 for the 2024 fiscal year.

C: On September 28, 2023, in order to partially mitigate the problems discussed above, the Company entered into an agreement for a $1,500,000 bridge loan and executed documents including a convertible promissory note (“Note”) and a binding subscription agreement (“Subscription”) (collectively the Note and the Subscription are the “Bridge Loan Agreements”) with SEB LLC, a non-affiliated party (“Lender”). The Bridge Loan Agreements require the Lender to loan the Company $1,500,000 in six monthly tranches of $250,000 commencing October 2023. All sums advanced under the Bridge Loan Agreements (and accrued interest thereon) would be due and payable (with interest accrued at 9% per annum) on October 1, 2024, if not previously converted into securities of the Company. The Note is convertible at $1.00 per unit, at the sole election of the Lender, into units consisting of one share of the Company’s common stock and a warrant to purchase one half share. The initial $250,000 tranche was received by the Company on October 5, 2023. However, no further funds were received by the Company from the Lender. During early November 2023 the Lender informed the Company verbally that it did not intend to fulfill its obligations pursuant to the Bridge Loan Agreements and since such time the Lender has been in default (“Default”). On May 10, 2024, the Company received $150,000 from affiliates of the Bridge Loan Lender on terms not yet finalized and included in an agreement. These funds were received in the context of negotiations/discussions regarding a potential larger investment by affiliates and/or associates of the Lender, but no further funds were received, and the larger transaction was never completed. The funds were used primarily to re-initiate operations at the Initial Project. The Default (which is continuing) has created substantial problems for and materially damaged the Company and rendered the Company unable to meet its current creditor obligations on a timely basis. The Company is currently evaluating its rights regarding the Default by the Lender. See Notes 5 and 8 re Convertible Bridge Loan/Default and Note 11, Subsequent Events. This situation has contributed to the substantial increase in the Company’s ‘Current Liabilities’ including ‘accounts payable’ over recent periods. See Consolidated Financial Statements and ‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis’. The Company has engaged in discussion/negotiation with its larger creditors (including its largest creditor--- the primary contractor on the Initial Project) but has been unable to reach agreements regarding payments due to the uncertainty as to if, when and how much funding the Company will be able to raise in future periods. As a result, the Company’s largest creditor---the general contractor for the Initial Project \--- has filed a mechanics lien in Indiana (and its largest sub-contractor has sent notices related to its intention to file a mechanics lien) and other creditors are threatening to commence litigation and/or repossess/remove leased equipment).

D. At the end of December 2023, Bion achieved key objectives in the optimization of the Ammonia Recovery System at our commercial-scale demonstration facility in Fair Oaks, Indiana. Though delayed by supply chain issues, the demonstration at Fair Oaks confirmed the system's state-of-the-art capabilities. In managements’ opinion, the wide applicability of the ARS and its environmental benefits cannot be overstated, as livestock-related and other nutrient issues continue to grow, both in the U.S. and globally.

E: On January 2, 2024, Bion received a new (continuation) patent that broadened the claims related to its Ammonia Recovery System (ARS) to include industrial and municipal wastewater sources, in addition to animal waste streams that were previously covered. Since that time, Bion has focused a portion of its limited resources on understanding and evaluating opportunities to apply its ARS as a ‘standalone’ ammonia control solution in these sectors. In such cases, the ARS would be deployed as a bolt-on ammonia solution (vs integrated into a Bion Gen3Tech livestock platform) for facilities that produce biogas from organic waste streams, such as food, food processing, and livestock packing/slaughter, that are subject to EPA-mandated discharge limits that require ammonia control. We believe at this time there is potentially a robust opportunity to provide ammonia control solutions to others and we intend to pursue this opportunity in the coming year.

F: Effective April 1, 2024, the Company entered into two material definitive agreements regarding voluntary surrender for cancellation of securities of the Company (and related matters) by: a) members of the family of Dominic Bassani, recently deceased former Chief Executive Officer and (with his family) the Company’s largest shareholder (collectively “Bassani Family”), and b) Mark A. Smith, President of the Company and a director (“MAS”). The Bassani Family and MAS entered into these agreements with the intention of mitigating dilution to shareholders as new, successor management is added to the Company’s management team. The Bassani Family has agreed to surrender not less than approximately 20% of its Company holdings (as of December 2023) which surrender will increase to approximately 30% based on certain financing performances (see Form 8-K dated April 3, 2024, Exhibit 10.1). The Bassani Family will elect exactly which Company securities it will surrender for cancellation on or before June 30, 2024, the Company’s fiscal year end. The Bassani Family Agreement also sets forth requirements regarding conversion of convertible notes held by members of the Bassani Family after the security surrender. See Exhibit 10.1 for the material terms of the contemplated transactions. MAS has agreed to surrender approximately 30% of his Company holdings (as of December 2023). Immediately upon the effectiveness of the MAS Agreement, he cancelled all Company options held by him (2,425,000, in aggregate) and waived $56,250 of accrued deferred compensation (convertible into 75,000 shares of the Company’s common stock). The MAS Agreement also sets forth requirements regarding conversion of convertible notes held by MAS after the security surrender and references the planned retirement of MAS on or before May 15, 2024. See Exhibit 10.2 for the material terms of the contemplated transactions. Subsequently, and effective June 27, 2024, the Board of Directors of the Company agreed to amend the terms of the agreements dated April 1, 2024. The amendments solely extend any dates of certain required conversions and/or exercises (and related promissory note maturity dates and warrant expiration dates), if any, that were earlier than January 15, 2025, to said date. No changes were made regarding any ‘givebacks’ of securities of the Company. On June 30, 2024, the Bassani Family provided the Company with their list regarding surrender of 20% of its Company holdings (as of December 2023) (See Exhibit 10.1). As previously reported, MAS has previously completed 100% of his ‘give backs’.

G: On May 13, 2024, the Board of Directors commenced a Board-led review of potential strategic alternatives to ensure the Company’s survival and to enhance Bion’s potential growth and maximize shareholder value. The review will include assessing approaches to optimize the Company’s multiple business opportunities through alternative capital return strategies, potential strategic or financial transactions, and developing strategic initiatives best applicable to each opportunity created by our technology in order to consider all possible paths towards maximizing value creation. No timetable has been established for the conclusion of this review and no decisions related to any further actions or potential strategic alternatives have been made at this time. There can be no assurance that the review will result in any transaction or other strategic change or outcome.

H: Effective May 31, 2024, Bion accepted the resignation of Bill O’Neill, both as CEO and Director. Mr. O’Neill had previously informed the Board that he believed he was not being adequately compensated or incentivized and the job was too difficult. On May 21, 204, Bion received a letter from Mr. O’Neill that expressed his dissatisfaction with the Board’s refusal to address his demands and stated he was resigning to pursue other opportunities, despite the fact he had not yet completed the last year+ of a three-year agreement. Bion chose to accept his resignation in the belief the Company needed a change in leadership and approach.

I: On June 1, 2024, Craig Scott joined the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Scott has served Bion in several senior positions, dating back to 1996. Mr. Scott also agreed to assume a broader management role for Bion and subsequently accepted the role of interim Chief Executive Officer. Also in June, Greg Schoener assumed the role of Chief Operating Officer on an interim basis. He also joined Bion's Board of Directors. Mr. Schoener is a successful business owner and operator, serving the construction industry in Houston, Texas. He brings broad business management experience, with an emphasis on mission-focused execution and accountability. He has been a Bion shareholder since late-2020. Bob Weerts, another Bion shareholder and a successful serial entrepreneur from Winnebago, Minnesota, also accepted a position on Bion’s Board of Directors.

J: On June 18, 2024, Bion formed a strategic relationship with Turk Stovall and Stovall Ranching Companies with the goal of developing a 15,000-head sustainable beef project at Stovall’s Yellowstone Cattle Feeders (YCF) location in Shepherd, Montana. The YCF feedyard is a traditional outdoor dirt feedlot that today is permitted to feed up to 25,000 head. Mr. Stovall also agreed to join Bion's Board of Directors and lead a joint venture between Stovall Ranching Companies and Bion to develop the project. The facility is envisioned to produce premium quality Montana beef that we believe will be the 'cleanest', most eco-friendly finished beef in the marketplace.

K: On August 23, 2024, Bion announced that three affiliates of the Company (Greg Schoener, Interim COO & Director; Turk Stovall, Director; Bob Weerts, Director) and two shareholders (one of whom is the brother of Greg Schoener) have agreed to advance to the Company, through a newly formed LLC, up to $500,000 in consideration of a secured convertible promissory note. It is anticipated that others will join the LLC, although there can be no assurance they will. The note instrument and agreements have not been executed at this time because terms and other details have not been finalized yet; however, the group has begun advancing money to the Company. As of the date of the filing of this report, the aggregate sum of $201,564 has been advanced to the Company, together with express directions on what items were to be paid with such funds. When a final agreement is executed, it will be attached as an exhibit to a Form 8-K.

Change in Approach

Through the end of calendar 2022, Bion’s strategy to exploit the beef opportunity was focused on developing an initial sustainable beef project as ‘proof of concept’. At the beginning of 2023, under the guidance of our last CEO, Bion’s strategy shifted to executing multiple letters of intent and agreements for sustainable beef JV projects and moving forward with development of those projects in quick succession. During our 2023 fiscal year, Bion entered into three letters of intent (“LOIs”): a) July 2022 letter of intent to develop a large-scale commercial project - a 15,000-head sustainable beef cattle feeding operation together with the Ribbonwire Ranch (“Ribbonwire LOI”), in Dalhart, Texas (with a provision to expand to 60,000 head) (“Dalhart Project”), b) January 2023 letter of intent to develop a large-scale commercial project - a 15,000-head sustainable beef cattle feeding operation together with the Olson Feeders and TD Angus (“Olson LOI”), near North Platte, Nebraska (with a provision to expand to 45,000 head or more) (“Olson Project”), c) April 2023 letter of intent to develop a large-scale commercial project - a 15,000-head sustainable beef cattle feeding operation together with Dakota Valley Growers (“DVG LOI”) near Bathgate, North Dakota (“DVG Project”). Based on our experience, we believe it will not be difficult to secure participation in our Projects from additional feeders/cattlemen, especially once project financing and offtake agreements for both protein and co-products, are in place.

Bion’s new leadership team has returned the company to its earlier approach, focusing on building a ‘flagship’ first project to prove concept feasibility and to provide a development and finance model for future projects. Leadership made this decision after determining that a) a large addressable market for sustainable beef does exist and consumers have demonstrated a ‘willingness to pay’ a premium for sustainable food products; however, since such products cannot be supplied today at scale, it is not a ‘ready’ market and will take time to develop), b) an entrenched industry is never eager for change and it will only occur through enlightened/ proven self-interest, and c) investment capital of the magnitude needed for large scale conversion to sustainable production will first require proof of concept.

Leadership believes for several reasons that the best opportunity for the Company to prove its sustainable beef concept at this time is with the Stovall Ranch JV in Montana. In June 2024, Bion formed a strategic relationship with Turk Stovall and Stovall Ranching Companies. Turk Stovall is a fifth-generation Montana cattleman, with an extensive graduate-level education in cattle husbandry and an MBA in agribusiness, and he is the largest custom cattle feeder in Montana. He also has broad experience and relationships with both the U.S. and Montana’s beef industry and important state leaders, resources, and agencies. Bion and Stovall have agreed to establish a JV, to be led by Mr. Stovall, with the goal of developing a 15,000-head sustainable beef project at Stovall’s Yellowstone Cattle Feeders (‘YCF’) location in Shepherd, Montana. We anticipate establishing the Stovall-Bion JV and creating related distribution agreements with key value chain partners during the current calendar year, with the intent to begin construction before the end of 2024.

____________________________________

The Company’s on-going difficulties raising needed funds over the past two years have rendered the Company unable to meet its current creditor obligations on a timely basis. The Company has engaged in discussion/negotiation with its larger creditors (including its largest creditor--- the primary contractor on the Initial Project) but has been unable to reach agreements regarding payments due to the uncertainty as to if, when, and how much funding the Company will be able to raise in future periods. As a result, the Company’s largest creditor---the general contractor for the Initial Project --- has filed a mechanics in Indiana (and its largest sub-contractor has sent notices related to its intention to file a mechanics lien), other creditors are threatening to commence litigation and/or repossess/remove leased equipment and the Company is behind on its Lease payments related to the site of the Initial Project. On September 5, 2024, three members of the LLC (Subsequent Events, Aug 23, 2024, below) met with representatives of two of the largest creditors: the primary contractor and the property lessor. Discussions and ultimate resolution are ongoing and subject to Bion’s ability to raise capital in a timely manner. We have implemented extreme cost savings measures: maintaining only mission-critical operations and funding, on a weekly basis, only those expenses needed to maintain those operations. These measures will continue until we can execute a larger financing or obtain other sources of capital, such as a potential strategic investor/partner or license agreement.

Bion is currently (and has been for some time) in discussions with several companies related to potential strategic partnerships in renewable energy – RNG and solar – and clean fuels, as well as reducing the carbon footprint of livestock production, especially beef. With today’s U.S, and global emphasis on decarbonizing energy and the food supply chain, the sectors have become closely intertwined, they are evolving quickly, and integrated solutions have become increasingly desired, but complex. Bion is now evaluating both European and U.S. renewable energy developers, operators, and investors to determine the best fit for moving forward with AD/RNG development for its own beef project(s), animal waste treatment for others, both here and in the EU, as well as a development partner in industrial and municipal opportunities. Bion believes that such a relationship would entail a direct investment in Bion, licensing fee, or some other ‘up front’ financial benefit to Bion.

Bion’s new leadership team is strongly committed to Bion’s continuation, its future success, and its shareholders. We have returned the company to its earlier approach of focusing on building a ‘flagship’ first project to prove the concept and markets and provide a development and finance model for future projects, instead of attempting to move forward on multiple projects simultaneously or in rapid succession. We believe this will put us on a more achievable path. Further, this strategy will substantially reduce our need for capital, and we believe that a more reasonable and credible objective will make it easier to raise that capital. We also believe that the recent changes in leadership, including the addition of Turk Stovall to that leadership team, will lend validation and credibility to Bion and its business plan, making it easier to raise capital from potential strategic, institutional, and retail investors. For several reasons, we think that the best opportunity to finance a project, and to prove the sustainable beef concept, is with the Stovall Ranch JV in Montana and we are exploring a wide range of alternatives related to funding both the JV and Bion.

THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT THE COMPANY WILL REACH OR APPROACH THE GOALS/TARGETS SET FORTH ABOVE. REACHING SUCH GOALS/TARGETS WILL REQUIRE RESOLUTION OF THE COMPANY’S EXISTING FINANCIAL DIFFICULTIES AND ACCESS TO VERY LARGE AMOUNTS OF CAPITAL (EQUITY AND DEBT) AS EACH BEEF PROJECT MODULE IS PROJECTED TO COST IN EXCESS OF $50 MILLION (DEBT/EQUITY/GRANTS) TO CONSTRUCT AND WILL REQUIRE MOBILIZATION OF SUBSTANTIAL PERSONNEL, TECHNICAL RESOURCES AND MANAGEMENT SKILLS. THE COMPANY DOES NOT POSSESS EITHER THE FINANCIAL OR PERSONNEL RESOURCES INTERNALLY AND WILL NEED TO SOURCE SUCH RESOURCES FROM OUTSIDE ITSELF.

For expanded information regarding our ‘HISTORY, BACKGROUND AND CURRENT ACTIVITIES’, see discussion within the Notes (particularly Notes 1, 3, 4, and 8) included in this report, in Forms 8-K and Forms 10-Q filed earlier this year and Item 1 (and other sections) in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K filed in previous years.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Revenue Recognition

The Company currently does not generate revenue and if and when the Company begins to generate revenue the Company will comply with the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”.

Stock-based compensation

The Company follows the provisions of ASC 718, which generally requires that share-based compensation transactions be accounted and recognized in the statement of income based upon their grant date fair values.

Pursuant to ASC Topic 815 “Derivatives and Hedging” (“Topic 815”), the Company reviews all financial instruments for the existence of features which may require fair value accounting and a related mark-to-market adjustment at each reporting period end. Once determined, the Company assesses these instruments as derivative liabilities. The fair value of these instruments is adjusted to reflect the fair value at each reporting period end, with any increase or decrease in the fair value being recorded in results of operations as an adjustment to fair value of derivatives. As of June 30, 2024 and 2023, there are no derivative financial instruments.

Options:

The Company has issued options to employees and consultants under its 2006 Plan to purchase common shares of the Company. Options are valued on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The expected volatility is based on the historical price volatility of the Company’s common stock. The dividend yield represents the Company’s anticipated cash dividend on common stock over the expected term of the stock options. The U.S. Treasury bill rate for the expected term of the stock options was utilized to determine the risk-free interest rate. The expected term of stock options represents the period of time the stock options granted are expected to be outstanding based upon management’s estimates.

Warrants:

The Company has issued warrants to purchase common shares of the Company. Warrants are valued using a fair value based method, whereby the fair value of the warrant is determined at the warrant issue date using a market-based option valuation model based on factors including an evaluation of the Company’s value as of the date of the issuance, consideration of the Company’s limited liquid resources and business prospects, the market price of the Company’s stock in its mostly inactive public market and the historical valuations and purchases of the Company’s warrants. When warrants are issued in combination with debt or equity securities, the warrants are valued and accounted for based on the relative fair value of the warrants in relation to the total value assigned to the debt or equity securities and warrants combined.

Lease Accounting:

The Company accounts for leases under ASC 842, Leases (“ASC 842”). Accordingly, the Company will determine whether an arrangement contains a lease at the inception of the arrangement. If a lease is determined to exist, the term of such lease is assessed based on the date on which the underlying asset is made available for the Company’s use by the lessor. The Company’s assessment of the lease term reflects the non-cancelable term of the lease, inclusive of any rent-free periods and/or periods covered by early-termination options which the Company is reasonably certain of not exercising, as well as periods covered by renewal options which the Company is reasonably certain of exercising. The Company also determines lease classification as either operating or finance at lease commencement, which governs the pattern of expense recognition and the presentation reflected in the consolidated statements of operations over the lease term.

For leases with a term exceeding 12 months, a lease liability is recorded on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet at lease commencement reflecting the present value of its fixed minimum payment obligations over the lease term. A corresponding right-of-use (“ROU”) asset equal to the initial lease liability is also recorded, adjusted for any prepaid rent and/or initial direct costs incurred in connection with execution of the lease and reduced by any lease incentives received. For purposes of measuring the present value of its fixed payment obligations for a given lease, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate, determined based on information available at lease commencement, as rates implicit in its leasing arrangements are typically not readily determinable. The Company's incremental borrowing rate reflects the rate it would pay to borrow on a secured basis and incorporates the term and economic environment of the associated lease. 

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2024 COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2023

Revenue

Total revenues were nil for both the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023.

General and Administrative 

Total general and administrative expenses were $2,046,000 and $3,072,000 for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

Salaries and related payroll tax expenses were $600,000 and $730,000 for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Consulting costs were $488,000 and $485,000 for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The $130,000 decrease in salary costs is due to Bill O’Neill resigning, Dominic Bassani passing away and the Company not replacing the position and a reduction in salary for Mark Smith. Investor relations expenses were $328,000 and $697,000 for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and the $367,000 decrease was due to less investor related activity during the fiscal year in order to conserve cash. Legal costs were $34,000 and $83,000 for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

Stock-based compensation for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 were ($16,000) and $442,000, respectively. The $458,000 variance is due to less stock-based compensation issued in 2024 and the reversal of stock options expense for unvested options for Bill O’Neill.

Depreciation

Total depreciation expense was $1,582 and $1,645 for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

Research and Development

Total research and development expenses were $23,000 and $83,000 for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing an $60,000 decrease due to less consulting and other expenses being allocated to research and development.

Salaries and related payroll tax expenses were $6,000 and $9,000 for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Consulting costs were $4,000 and $43,000 for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The decrease of $39,000 was due to none of Brightcap’s consulting cost being allocated to research and development.

Loss from Operations

As a result of the factors described above, the loss from operations was $2,071,000 and $3,157,000 for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 respectively.

Other (Income)/Expense

Other expense was $9,600,000 and $33,000 for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The increase in 2024 was due to the impairment of fixed assets taken on the Fair Oaks project.

Interest expense related to deferred compensation, loan payable and convertible notes prior to capitalization was $222,000 and $218,000 for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

Net Loss Attributable to the Noncontrolling Interest

The net loss attributable to the noncontrolling interest was nil and nil for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

Net Loss Attributable to Bion’s Common Stockholders 

As a result of the factors described above, the net loss attributable to Bion’s stockholders was $11,691,000 and $3,189,000 for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and the net loss per basic common share was $.22 and $.07 for the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The Company's consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2024 have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The Report of our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Company's consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended June 30, 2024 includes a "going concern" explanatory paragraph which means that the auditors stated that conditions exist that raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.

Operating Activities

As of June 30, 2024, the Company had cash of approximately $52,000. During the year ended June 30, 2024, net cash used in operating activities was $849,000, primarily consisting of cash operating expenses related to salaries and benefits, and other general and administrative costs such as insurance, legal, accounting, consulting and investor relations expenses as well as the purchase of property and equipment. Cash expenditures were offset in part by proceeds from financing activities, primarily the exercise of warrants and sale of common shares. As previously noted, the Company is currently not generating significant revenue and accordingly has not generated cash flows from operations. The Company does not anticipate generating sufficient revenues to offset operating and capital costs for a minimum of two to five years. While there are no assurances that the Company will be successful in its efforts to develop and construct its Projects and market its Systems, it is certain that the Company will require substantial funding from external sources. As stated in multiple places in this report, over the last 12 months the Company has had only very limited success in raising needed funds which lack of success has had material negative effects on the Company and its business. Given the unsettled state of the current credit and capital markets for companies such as Bion, there is no assurance the Company will be able to raise the funds it needs on reasonable terms.

Investing Activities

During the year ended June 30, 2024, the Company invested $869,000 in the purchase of property and equipment, primarily related to the Initial Project construction in process.

Financing Activities

During the year ended June 30, 2024, the Company received net cash proceeds of $590,000 from the sale of units for $611,000 less commissions of $20,000. 

During the year ended June 30, 2024, the Company received gross cash proceeds of $400,000 from a convertible bridge loan and $125,000 from a convertible loan.

As of June 30, 2024, the Company has debt obligations consisting of: a) deferred compensation of $890,000, b) convertible notes payable – affiliates of $1,709,000, c) current note payable including accrued interest of $419,000 and d) notes payable including accrued interest of $125,600. As of June 30, 2023, the Company had debt obligations of a) deferred compensation of $865,000, b) convertible notes payable – affiliates of $1,716,000, and c) current note payable including accrued interest of nil.

Plan of Operations and Outlook

As of June 30, 2024, the Company had cash of approximately $52,000.

The Company continues to explore sources of additional financing to satisfy its current operating requirements as it is not currently generating any significant revenues. During fiscal years 2023 and 2022 (as a whole), the Company faced less difficulty in raising equity funding (but was subject to substantial equity dilution from the larger amounts of equity financing during the periods) than was experienced in the prior 3 years. However, this positive trend did not continue during the last quarter of the 2023 fiscal year and the entirety of fiscal year 2024 (and the first quarter of 2025 through the date of this report). The Company raised very limited equity funds during such periods to meet some of its immediate needs, and therefore, the Company needs to raise substantial additional funds in the upcoming periods. The Company has faced substantial demand for capital and operating expenditures for the fiscal year 2024 that we anticipate will continue (or increase) during the 2025 fiscal year and periods thereafter as it moves toward commercial implementation of its 3G Tech and development of JVs (including costs associated with additions of personnel to carry out the business activities of the Company) and, therefore, is likely to continue to face, significant cash flow management issues due to limited capital resources and working capital constraints which had only begun to be alleviated during 2022 and 2023\. As a result, the Company has faced, and continues to face, significant cash flow management challenges due to material working capital constraints. To partially mitigate these working capital constraints, the Company's core senior management and some key employees and consultants have been deferring most of their cash compensation and/or are accepting compensation in the form of securities of the Company and members of the Company's senior management have from time-to-time made loans to the Company in the past and may do so in future periods.

The Company continues to explore sources of additional financing (including potential agreements with strategic partners – both financial and ag-industry) to satisfy its current and future operating and capital expenditure requirements as it is not currently generating any significant revenues. Bion’s leadership team’s new approach, developing a single proof-of-concept project vs multiple projects developed simultaneously, will substantially reduce the company’s need to raise capital. Further, leadership believes this approach represents a more achievable goal, which coupled with the addition of new leadership, including Turk Stovall to lead Bion’s beef efforts, will reinspire confidence in our own shareholders, as well as assure potential new strategic and institutional investors, and make it easier to raise funds.

During the years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, the Company received gross proceeds of approximately $1,140,000 and $4,038,000, respectively, from the sale of its debt and equity securities. The Company raised gross proceeds of approximately $639,000 and $4,038,000, respectively, from the sale of equity securities and warrant exercises. The Company paid commissions on the exercise of warrants in the amount of $20,000 and $86,000 in 2024 and 2023, respectively. During the year ended June 30, 2024 the Company received proceeds of $400,000 from a convertible bridge loan but the provider of the bridge loan during November 2023 (and on an ongoing basis since such time) breached its contractual obligation/binding subscription agreement to fund an additional $1,100,000 to the Company, which breach (combined with management stresses related to the final illness and passing of Dominic Bassani, Bion’s then COO and former CEO, and required management transitions) has created substantial cash flow difficulties for the Company which are ongoing. During the year ended June 30, 2024 the Company received proceeds of $125,000 from a convertible note.

Going Concern and Management’s Plans: 

The Company’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern.

The Company is not currently generating any significant revenues. Further, the Company’s anticipated revenues, if any, from existing JVs and proposed projects will not be sufficient to offset operating and capital costs (for Projects) for a minimum of two to five years. Further, there are no assurances that the Company will ultimately be successful in its efforts to develop and construct its Projects and market its Systems; but, it is certain that the Company will require substantial funding from external sources. Given the unsettled state of the current credit and capital markets for companies such as Bion, there is no assurance the Company will be able to raise the funds it needs on reasonable terms. The aggregate effect of these factors raises substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

During the year ended June 30, 2024, a one-time, non-recurring, non-cash charge of $9,460,425 was incurred by the Company in connection with a write-down of the capitalized carrying value of the Initial Project (at Fair Oaks, Indiana) in order to conform to the applicable accounting practices, because the Initial Project was recently reclassified as largely a research & development facility and is located on land subject to a short term lease (as described above in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis). This charge reduced the Company shareholders’ equity to ($5,809,000) and resulted in a loss of $11,691,115 for the 2024 fiscal year. Current liabilities were approximately $5.8 million and $1.6 million at June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, the increase of approximately $4.2 million was largely due to an increase in ‘accounts payable and accrued expenses’ and debt moving from long term to current liabilities. Similarly, the Company’s cash on hand decreased from approximately $626,000 to approximately $52,000 over the same period. The Company’s extreme difficulty in obtaining needed funds during the entire 2024 fiscal year has continued throughout the first quarter of the current fiscal year to date. See NOTE 1. Going Concern and Management’s Plans, Plan of Operations and Outlook and ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 11 Subsequent Events.

The constraints on available resources have had, and continue to have, negative effects on the pace and scope of the Company’s efforts to operate and develop its business. The Company has had to delay payment of trade obligations and has had to economize in many ways that have potentially negative consequences. If the Company is able to raise needed funds during the remainder of the current fiscal year (and subsequent periods), of which there is no assurance, management will not need to consider deeper cuts (including additional personnel cuts) and/or curtailment of ongoing activities including research and development activities. The Company will need to obtain additional capital to fund its operations and technology development, to satisfy existing creditors, to develop Projects. The Company anticipates that it will seek to raise from $20,000,000 to $80,000,000 or more debt and/or equity through joint ventures, strategic partnerships and/or sale of its equity securities (common, preferred and/or hybrid) and/or debt (including convertible) securities, and/or through use of ‘rights’ and/or warrants (new and/or existing) and/or through other means during the next twelve months. However, as discussed above, there is no assurance, especially in light of the difficulties the Company has experienced in many recent years and the extremely unsettled capital markets that presently exist for small pre-revenue companies like us, that the Company will be able to obtain the funds that it needs to stay in business, complete its technology development or to successfully develop its business and Projects. Ultimately, in the event the Company cannot secure additional financial resources, or complete a strategic transaction in the longer term, the Company may need to curtail or suspend its operational plans or current initiatives, or potentially liquidate its business interests, and investors may lose all or part of their investment.

The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability or classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. The following paragraphs describe management’s plans with regard to these conditions.

Management’s Plan

To help alleviate short-term cash needs and continue current operations, three affiliates of the Company (Greg Schoener, Interim COO & Director; Turk Stovall, Director; Bob Weerts, Director) and two shareholders (one of whom is the brother of Greg Schoener) have agreed to advance to the Company, through a newly formed LLC, up to $500,000 in consideration of a secured convertible promissory note. It is anticipated that additional investors will join the LLC, and that the funds available to Bion will increase, although there can be no assurance they will. The note instrument and agreements have not been executed at this time because terms and other details have not been finalized yet; however, the group has begun advancing money to the Company. As of the date of the filing of this report, the aggregate sum of $201,564 has been advanced to the Company, together with express directions on what items were to be paid with such funds. When a final agreement is executed, it will be attached as an exhibit to a Form 8-K.

To date, the Company has primarily raised funds through private placements with accredited investors, often conducted through FINRA-registered broker/dealers. However, the Company anticipates, moving forward, it will need to raise capital using a combination of financial instruments and sources, that could also include strategic and/or institutional investors, including family offices and private equity, brokered equity or debt offerings with both public and private investors, and banks and other ag lending institutions, among others, although there can be no assurance it will be successful. Many of these financing options may involve dilution, potentially substantial, for current shareholders. Management intends to augment its access to capital by adding one or more staff members (or consultants) with experience in the capital markets, as well as utilizing its current contacts and relationships in the capital markets.

Bion is currently in discussions with several potential strategic partners in renewable energy – RNG and solar – and clean fuels, as well as reducing the carbon footprint of livestock production, especially beef. Some of these candidates have expressed an interest in investing in Bion and JV projects, and management believes that Bion will receive an investment from such a partner (as well as from other strategic partners from other parts of the value chain), although there can be no assurance that it will. Bion is now evaluating both European and U.S. renewable energy/ clean fuels developers, operators, and investors to determine the best fit for moving forward with AD/RNG development for its own beef project(s), access to clean fuels value chains for its low-carbon fertilizers, animal waste treatment for others, both here and in the EU, as well as a development partner in industrial and municipal opportunities. Bion believes that such a relationship would entail a direct investment in Bion, licensing fee, or some other ‘up front’ financial benefit to Bion.

To help alleviate short-term cash needs for continued operations, three affiliates of the Company (Greg Schoener, Interim COO & Director; Turk Stovall, Director; Bob Weerts, Director) and two shareholders (one of whom is the brother of Greg Schoener) have agreed to advance to the Company, through a newly formed LLC, up to $500,000 in consideration of a secured convertible promissory note. It is anticipated that others will join the LLC, although there can be no assurance they will. The note instrument and agreements have not been executed at this time because terms and other details have not been finalized yet; however, the group has begun advancing money to the Company. As of the date of the filing of this report, the aggregate sum of $201,564 has been advanced to the Company, together with express directions on what items were to be paid with such funds. When a final agreement is executed, it will be attached as an exhibit to a Form 8-K.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

We have the following material contractual obligations (in addition to employment and consulting agreements with management and employees):

The Company entered into an agreement on September 23, 2021, to lease approximately four acres of land near Fair Oaks, Indiana, for the development site of its Initial Project.

The future minimum lease payment under noncancelable operating lease with terms greater than one year as of June 30, 2024:

The weighted average remaining lease term and discounted rate related to the Company’s lease liability as of June 30, 2024 were 0.5 years and 10%, respectively. The Company’s lease discount rate is generally based on the estimates of its incremental borrowing rate as the discount rates implicit in the Company’s lease cannot be readily determined.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements (as that term is defined in Item 303 of Regulation S-K) that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative