Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following is a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations as of, and for, the periods presented and should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding industry outlook, our expectations for the future of our business, and our liquidity and capital resources as well as other non-historical statement. These statements are based on current expectations and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties described in “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Our actual results may differ materiality from those contained in or implied by these forward-looking statements. 

All references to numbered Notes are to specific Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and which descriptions are incorporated by reference. Capitalized terms used, but not defined, in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation (“MD&A”) have the same meanings as in such Notes.

Overview

We are a leading global provider of online auctions and vehicle remarketing services with operations in the United States (“U.S.”), the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), Germany, Brazil, Canada, the United Arab Emirates (“U.A.E.”), Spain, Finland, Oman, the Republic of Ireland, and Bahrain.

Our goals are to generate sustainable profits for our stockholders, while also providing environmental and social benefits for the world around us. With respect to our environmental stewardship, we believe our business is a critical enabler for the global re-use and recycling of vehicles, parts, and raw materials. We are not responsible for the carbon emissions resulting from new vehicle manufacturing, governmental fuel emissions standards or vehicle use by consumers. Each vehicle that enters our business operations already exists, with whatever fuel technology and efficiency it was designed and built to have, and the substantial carbon emissions associated with the vehicle’s manufacture have already occurred. However, upon our receipt of an existing vehicle, we help facilitate the decrease of its total environmental impact by extending its useful life and thereby avoiding the carbon emissions associated with the alternative of new vehicle and auto parts manufacturing. For example, many of the cars we process and remarket are subsequently restored to drivable condition, reducing the new vehicle manufacturing burden the world would otherwise face. Many of our cars are purchased by dismantlers, who recycle and refurbish parts for vehicle repairs, again reducing new and aftermarket parts manufacturing. Finally, some of our vehicles are returned to their raw material inputs through scrapping, thereby reducing the need for further new resource extraction. In each of these cases, our business facilitates the reduction of the carbon and other environmental footprint of the global transportation industry. 

Beyond our environmental stewardship, we also support the world’s communities in two important ways. First, we believe that we contribute to economic development and well-being by enabling more affordable access to mobility around the world. For example, many of the automobiles sold through our auction platform are purchased for use in developing countries where affordable transportation is a critical enabler of education, health care, and well-being. Secondly, we believe we play an important role in the communities we serve through our response to and management of catastrophic weather events. This includes our investments in equipment and infrastructure which support our overall disaster recovery efforts. For example, we mobilized our people, and engaged with a multitude of service providers to timely retrieve, store, and remarket tens of thousands of flood-damaged vehicles in South Florida in the wake of Hurricane Ian in the fall of 2022.

We provide vehicle sellers with a full range of services to process and sell vehicles primarily over the internet through our Virtual Bidding Third Generation internet auction-style sales technology, which we refer to as VB3. Vehicle sellers consist primarily of insurance companies, but also include dealers, individuals, charities, rental, banks, finance companies, and fleet operators. We obtained 81%, 83%, and 80% of the total number of vehicles processed during fiscal 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively, from insurance company sellers. We sell the vehicles principally to licensed vehicle dismantlers, rebuilders, repair licensees, used vehicle dealers, exporters, and to the general public. The majority of the vehicles sold on behalf of insurance companies are either damaged vehicles deemed a total loss; not economically repairable by the insurance companies; or are recovered stolen vehicles for which an insurance settlement with the vehicle owner has already been made. We offer vehicle sellers a full range of services that help expedite each stage of the vehicle sales process, minimize administrative and processing costs, and maximize the ultimate sales price through the online auction process.

In the U.S., Canada, Brazil, the Republic of Ireland, Finland, the U.A.E., Oman, and Bahrain, we sell vehicles primarily as an agent and derive revenue primarily from auction and auction-related sales transaction fees charged for vehicle remarketing services as well as fees for services subsequent to the auction, such as delivery and storage. In the U.K., Germany, and Spain 

we operate both as an agent and on a principal basis, in some cases purchasing salvage vehicles outright and reselling the vehicles for our own account. In the U.K. we recognize revenue on a principal basis from selling dismantled parts through GPS. In Germany and Spain, we also derive revenue from listing vehicles on behalf of insurance companies and insurance experts to determine the vehicle’s residual value and/or to facilitate a sale for the insured.

Key Financial Performance Measures

We monitor and analyze a number of key financial performance indicators in order to manage our business and evaluate our financial and operating performance. Such indicators include:

Service and Vehicle Sales Revenue: Our service revenues consist of auction and auction-related sales transaction fees charged for vehicle remarketing services. These auction and auction-related services may include a combination of the following: vehicle purchasing fees: vehicle listing fees; vehicle selling fees that can be based on a predetermined percentage of the vehicle sales price, tiered vehicle sales price fees, or at a fixed fee based on the sale of each vehicle regardless of the selling price of the vehicle; transportation fees for the cost of transporting the vehicle to or from our facility; title processing and preparation fees; vehicle storage fees; bidding fees; and vehicle loading fees. These fees are recognized as net revenue (not gross vehicle selling price) at the time of auction in the amount of such fees charged. Purchased vehicle revenue includes the gross sales price of the vehicles which we have purchased or are otherwise considered to own. We have certain contracts with insurance companies, primarily in the U.K., in which we act as a principal, purchasing vehicles and reselling them for our own account. We also purchase vehicles in the open market, primarily from individuals, and resell them for our own account. 

Our revenue is impacted by several factors, including total loss frequency and the average vehicle auction selling price, as a significant amount of our service revenue is associated in some manner with the ultimate selling price of the vehicle. Vehicle auction selling prices are driven primarily by: (i) market demand for rebuildable, drivable vehicles; (ii) used car pricing, which we also believe has an impact on total loss frequency; (iii) end market demand for recycled and refurbished parts as reflected in demand from dismantlers; (iv) the mix of cars sold; (v) changes in the U.S. dollar exchange rate to foreign currencies, which we believe has an impact on auction participation by international buyers; and; (vi) changes in commodity prices, particularly the per ton price for crushed car bodies, as we believe this has an impact on the ultimate selling price of vehicles sold for scrap and vehicles sold for dismantling. We cannot specifically quantify the financial impact that commodity pricing, used car pricing, and product sales mix has on the selling price of vehicles, our service revenues, or financial results. Total loss frequency is the percentage of cars involved in accidents that insurance companies salvage rather than repair and is driven by the relationship between repair costs, used car values, and auction returns. Over the past 30 years we believe there has been an increase in overall growth in the salvage market driven by an increase in total loss frequency. This increase in total loss frequency may have been driven by changes in used car values and repair costs over the same long-term horizon, which we believe are generally trending upward. We believe the long-term trend of increases in total loss frequency will continue. In the near term changes in used car prices and repair cost, are inversely related but may impact total loss frequency and thereby affect our growth rate. Used car values are determined by many factors, including used car supply, which is tied directly to new car sales, and the average age of cars on the road. The average age of cars on the road has continued to increase, growing from 11.1 years in 2012 to 12.6 years in 2024. Repair costs are generally based on damage severity, vehicle complexity, repair parts availability, repair parts costs, labor costs, and repair shop lead times. The factors that can influence repair costs, used car pricing, and auction returns are many and varied and we cannot predict their movements with precision.

Operating Costs and Expenses: Yard operations expenses consist primarily of: (i) labor (operating personnel at yards); (ii) transportation (miles traveled and fuel rates); (iii) facilities (maintenance, property-related taxes, rent, and insurance); (iv) other (marketing and auction related costs); and (v) costs of vehicles sold. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of executive management, accounting, data processing, sales personnel, professional services, marketing expenses, and technology enhancements and maintenance. 

Other Income and Expense: Other income consists primarily of interest income on U.S. Treasury Bills, foreign exchange rate gains and losses; gains and losses from the disposal of assets, which will fluctuate based on the nature of these activities each period; fees and interest expense on the credit facility, and earnings from unconsolidated affiliates.

Liquidity and Cash Flows: Our primary source of working capital is cash operating results. The primary source of our liquidity is our cash and cash equivalents and our revolving credit commitments under the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Revolving Loan Facility.”). The primary factors affecting cash operating results are: (i) seasonality; (ii) market wins and losses; (iii) supplier mix; (iv) accident frequency; (v) total loss frequency; (vi) volume from our existing suppliers; (vii) commodity pricing; (viii) used car pricing; (ix) foreign currency exchange rates; (x) product mix; (xi) contract 

mix to the extent applicable; (xii) our capital expenditures; and (xiii) other macroeconomic factors. These factors are further discussed in the “Results of Operations” and “Risk Factors” sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We also generate additional working capital and liquidity from the sale of assets and the issuance of shares through option exercises and shares issued under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. In addition, we believe we have access to additional liquidity from the sale of equity or debt securities, if needed. 

Acquisitions and New Operations

As part of our overall expansion strategy of offering integrated services to vehicle sellers, we anticipate acquiring and developing facilities in new regions, as well as the regions currently served by our facilities. We believe that these acquisitions and openings will strengthen our coverage, as we have facilities located in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Brazil, the Republic of Ireland, Germany, Finland, the U.A.E., Oman, Bahrain, and Spain with the intention of providing global coverage for our sellers.

The following tables set forth operational facilities that we have opened and are now operational from August 1, 2021 through July 31, 2024:

The following table sets forth the operational facilities obtained through business acquisitions from August 1, 2021 through July 31, 2024:

In October 2023, we acquired a controlling interest in Purple Wave, an online offsite heavy equipment auction company headquartered in Manhattan Kansas.

The period-to-period comparability of our consolidated operating results and financial position is affected by business acquisitions, new openings, weather, and product introductions during such periods. 

In addition to growth through business acquisitions, we seek to increase revenues and profitability by, among other things, (i) acquiring and developing additional vehicle storage facilities in key markets, including foreign markets; (ii) pursuing global, national, and regional vehicle seller agreements; (iii) increasing our service offerings; and (iv) expanding the application of VB3 into new markets. In addition, we implement our pricing structure and auction procedures, and attempt to introduce cost efficiencies at each of our acquired facilities by implementing our operational procedures, integrating our management information systems, and redeploying personnel, when necessary.

Results of Operations

The following table shows certain data from our consolidated statements of income expressed as a percentage of total service revenues and vehicle sales for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022:

Comparison of Fiscal Years ended July 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 

The following table presents a comparison of service revenues for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022:

Service Revenues. The increase in service revenues for fiscal 2024 of $362.9 million, or 11.3% as compared to fiscal 2023 came from (i) an increase in the U.S. of $284.5 million, and (ii) an increase in International of $78.4 million. The growth in the U.S. was driven primarily by an increase in volume and an increase in revenue per car due to fee optimization. The growth in International, after excluding positive fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $10.8 million, was driven primarily by an increase in volume offset by a minor decrease in revenue per car. 

The following table presents a comparison of vehicle sales for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022:

Vehicle Sales. The increase in vehicle sales for fiscal 2024 of $4.4 million, or 0.7% as compared to fiscal 2023 came from (i) a decrease in the U.S. of $9.4 million and (ii) an increase in International of $13.8 million. The decrease in the U.S. was primarily driven by a decrease in revenue per car due to lower auction selling prices, while performing favorably to the declining overall market trend, offset by an increase in volume. The growth in International, after excluding positive fluctuations in currency exchanges rates of $10.0 million was primarily driven by an increase in volume, offset by a decrease in revenue due to lower auction selling prices, which we believe is due to a change in the mix of vehicles sold. 

The following table presents a comparison of yard operations expense for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022:

Yard Operations Expenses. The increase in yard operations expenses for fiscal 2024 of $192.1 million, or 12.7% as compared to fiscal 2023 resulted from (i) an increase in the U.S. of $148.2 million, and (ii) an increase in International of $43.9 million. The increase in the U.S. compared to the same period last year relates to an increase in volume and an increase in the cost to process a car, driven by increase in subhaul, labor costs, title, facility, supplies, advertising and bank charges and the investment in Purple Wave. The increase in International, after excluding negative fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $5.8 million, is the result of an increase in volume which was partially offset by a decrease in the cost to process a car. Included in yard operations expenses were depreciation and amortization expenses. The increase in yard operations depreciation and amortization expenses as compared to the same period last year resulted primarily from depreciating new and expanded facilities placed into service in the U.S. and International.

The following table presents a comparison of cost of vehicle sales for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022:

Cost of Vehicle Sales. The increase in cost of vehicle sales for fiscal 2024 of $5.0 million, or 0.8% as compared to fiscal 2023, was the result of (i) a decrease in the U.S. of $13.3 million and (ii) an increase in International of $18.3 million. The decrease in the U.S. was primarily the result of a lower average purchase price due to a change in the mix of vehicles sold, partially offset by an increase in volume. The increase in International of $18.3 million, after excluding the negative fluctuations of currency exchange rates of $8.6 million, was primarily due to an increase in volume and higher average purchase prices due to the change in the mix of vehicles sold.

The following table presents a comparison of general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022:

General and Administrative Expenses. The increase in general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2024 of $84.8 million, or 33.9% as compared to fiscal 2023 came primarily from (i) an increase in the U.S. of $80.3 million, and (ii) an increase in International of $4.5 million. Excluding depreciation and amortization, the increase in the U.S. of $78.9 million resulted primarily from increases in labor costs, legal costs, facility repairs, and the consolidation of Purple Wave. The increase in International, after excluding the negative fluctuations in currency exchange rates of $1.3 million, resulted primarily from increases in labor costs, and marketing costs offset by a decrease in bank charges. The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses was the result of new intangibles and technology being placed in service in the U.S. and International. 

The following table summarizes total other expenses and income taxes for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022:

Other Income (Expenses). The increase in total other income for fiscal 2024 of $74.8 million, or 110.4% as compared to fiscal 2023 was primarily due to higher interest income earned from U.S. Treasury Bills, and gain on sale of fixed assets, net against a decrease in realized and unrealized foreign currency gains. 

Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rates were 20.5% and 20.4%, for fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively. The current and prior year’s effective tax rate was computed based on the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21.0%. The effective tax rate for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2024 was favorably impacted by $0.8 million of tax adjustments made in connection with finalizing our fiscal year 2023 tax return. The effective tax rate for fiscal year ending July 31, 2023 was favorably impacted by $1.5 million of tax adjustments made in connection with finalizing our fiscal year 2022 tax return. The effective tax rates in the current and prior year were also impacted by the recognition of excess tax benefits from the exercise of employee stock options of $14.8 million and $21.0 million for fiscal years 2024 and 2023, respectively. 

Discussion of Fiscal Year ended July 31, 2023 compared to Fiscal Year ended July 31, 2022 

For a discussion of fiscal 2023 as compared to fiscal 2022, please refer to Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2023, filed with the SEC on September 28, 2023. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The following table presents a comparison of key components of our liquidity and capital resources for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, excluding additional funds available to us through our Revolving Loan Facility:

Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased $556.7 million and working capital increased $1,019.8 million at July 31, 2024, as compared to July 31, 2023. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash increased primarily due to cash generated from operations and proceeds from stock option exercises. Working capital increased primarily from cash generated from operations and timing of cash receipts and payments, partially offset by capital expenditures and certain income tax benefits related to stock option exercises and timing of cash payments. Cash equivalents consisted of bank deposits, certificates of deposit, U.S. Treasury Bills, and funds invested in money market accounts, which bear interest at variable rates. 

Historically, we have financed our growth through cash generated from operations, public offerings of common stock, equity issued in conjunction with certain acquisitions, and debt financing. Our primary source of cash generated by operations is from the collection of service fees and reimbursable advances from the proceeds of vehicle sales. We expect to continue to use cash flows from operations to finance our working capital needs and to develop and grow our business. In addition to our stock repurchase program, we are considering a variety of alternative potential uses for our remaining cash balances and our cash flows from operations. For further detail, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9 – Long-Term Debt and Note 12 — Stockholders’ Equity and under the subheading “Credit Agreement” below.

Our business is seasonal as inclement weather during the winter months increases the frequency of accidents and consequently, the number of cars involved in accidents which the insurance companies salvage rather than repair. During the winter months, most of our facilities process 5% to 20% more vehicles than at other times of the year. Severe weather events, including but not limited to tornadoes, floods, hurricanes, and hailstorms, can also impact our volumes. These increased volumes require the increased use of our cash to pay out advances and handling costs of the additional business.

We believe that our currently available cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our operating and working capital requirements in the foreseeable future. We expect to acquire or develop additional locations and expand some of our current facilities in the foreseeable future. We may raise additional cash through drawdowns on our Revolving Loan Facility or issuance of additional equity to fund this expansion. Although the timing and magnitude of growth through expansion and acquisitions are not predictable, the opening of new greenfield yards is contingent upon our ability to locate property that (i) is in an area in which we have a need for more capacity; (ii) has adequate size given the capacity needs; (iii) has the appropriate shape and topography for our operations; (iv) is reasonably close to a major road or highway; and (v) most importantly, has the appropriate zoning for our business. 

As of July 31, 2024, $180.5 million of the $1.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., the repatriation of these funds could still be subject to the foreign withholding tax following the U.S. Tax Reform. However, our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. and our current plans do not require repatriation to fund our U.S. operations.

Net cash provided by operating activities increased for fiscal 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023 due to improved cash operating results primarily from an increase in service and vehicle sales revenues, partially offset by an increase in yard operations and general and administrative expenses, and changes in operating assets and liabilities. The change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of an increase income tax payable of $24.7 million, and accounts payable of $41.5 million, partially offset by accounts receivable of $22.2 million, and prepaid expenses of $11.1 million.

Net cash used in investing activities decreased for fiscal 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023 due primarily to proceeds from the sale of held to maturity securities net against the purchase of held to maturity securities. Our capital expenditures are primarily related to acquiring land, opening and improving facilities, capitalized software development costs for new software for internal use and major software enhancements, acquiring yard equipment, and lease buyouts of certain facilities. We continue to develop, expand, and invest in new and existing facilities and standardize the appearance of existing locations. As of July 31, 2024, we had no material non-cancelable commitments for future capital expenditures. 

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities decreased in fiscal 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023 due primarily to a decrease in proceeds from the exercise of stock options, a reduction in principal payments on debt and a reduction in the drawdown on the revolver facility as discussed in further detail in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12 — Stockholders’ Equity.

For a discussion of fiscal 2023 as compared to fiscal 2022, please refer to Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2023, filed with the SEC on September 28, 2023. 

Stock Repurchases

On September 22, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a 320 million share increase in our stock repurchase program, bringing the total current authorization to 784 million shares. The repurchases may be effected through solicited or unsolicited transactions in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. No time limit has been placed on the duration of the stock repurchase program. Subject to applicable securities laws, such repurchases will be made at such times and in such amounts as we deem appropriate and may be discontinued at any time. For fiscal 2024, 2023, and 2022, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock under the program. As of July 31, 2024, the total number of shares repurchased to date under the program was 458,196,792, and subject to applicable limitations under Delaware law, 325,803,208 shares were available for repurchase under our program.

In fiscal 2024, certain employees held stock option awards that could be exercised through a cashless exercise. For the years ended July 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, no employee exercised stock options through a cashless exercise. If exercised a portion of the options exercised will be net settled in satisfaction of the exercise price and employees’ statutory withholding requirements. Any shares withheld for taxes are treated as a repurchase of shares for accounting purposes, but do not count against our stock repurchased program. 

Credit Agreement

On December 21, 2021, we entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement by and among Copart, certain subsidiaries of Copart party thereto, the lenders party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (the “Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”). The Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement provides for a revolving loan facility of $1.250.0 million maturing on December 21, 2026 (including up to $550.0 million equivalent of borrowings in the Pounds Sterling, European Union Euro and Canadian dollars) with a $150.0 million equivalent sub-facility available to CPRT GmbH, a $150.0 million equivalent sub-facility available to Copart Autos España, S.L.U. and a $250.0 million sub-facility available to Copart UK Limited. The proceeds may be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, potential share repurchases, acquisition, or other investments relating to the Company’s expansion strategies in domestic and international markets.

We had $0.0 million and $11 million outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Loan Facility as of July 31, 2024 and July 31, 2023, respectively. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and we were in compliance with all covenants related to the Credit Agreement as of July 31, 2024.

Note Purchase Agreement

On December 3, 2014, we entered into a Note Purchase Agreement and sold to certain purchasers (collectively, the “Purchasers”) $400.0 million in aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes (the “Senior Notes”) consisting of (i) $100.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.07% Senior Notes, Series A, due December 3, 2024; (ii) $100.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.19% Senior Notes, Series B, due December 3, 2026; (iii) $100.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.25% Senior Notes, Series C, due December 3, 2027; and (iv) $100.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.35% Senior Notes, Series D, due December 3, 2029. Interest is due and payable quarterly, in arrears, on each of the Senior Notes. We may prepay the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at any time, subject to certain conditions, including minimum amounts and payment of a make-whole amount equal to the discounted value of the remaining scheduled interest payments under the Senior Notes. 

On May 24, 2022, we retired 100% of the Senior Notes. We paid $420.6 million to retire the Senior Notes which included an additional $16.8 million make-whole payment, to the holders of the Senior Notes, and $3.8 million in accrued interest.

For further detail on both the Credit Agreement and Note Purchase Agreement, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9 – Long-Term Debt .

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 

We consider the following policies to be the most critical to understanding the judgments that are involved and the uncertainties that could impact our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. For additional information, see Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. 

Revenue Recognition

Our primary performance obligation is the auctioning of consigned vehicles through an online auction process. Service revenue and vehicle sales revenue are recognized at the date the vehicles are sold at auction, excluding annual registration fees. Costs to prepare the vehicles for auction, including inbound transportation costs and titling fees, are deferred and recognized at the time of revenue recognition at auction.

Our disaggregation between service revenues and vehicle sales at the segment level reflects how the nature, timing, amount, and uncertainty of our revenues and cash flows are impacted by economic factors. We report sales taxes on relevant transactions on a net basis in our consolidated results of operations, and therefore do not include sales taxes in revenues or costs.

Service revenues

Our service revenues consist of auction and auction-related sales transaction fees charged for vehicle remarketing services. Within this revenue category, our primary performance obligation is the auctioning of consigned vehicles through an online auction process. These auction and auction-related services may include a combination of vehicle purchasing fees, vehicle listing fees, and vehicle selling fees that can be based on a predetermined percentage of the vehicle sales price, tiered vehicle sales price driven fees, or at a fixed fee based on the sale of each vehicle regardless of the selling price of the vehicle; transportation fees for the cost of transporting the vehicle to or from our facility; title processing and preparation fees; vehicle storage fees; bidding fees; and vehicle loading fees. These services are not distinct within the context of the contract. Accordingly, revenue for these services is recognized when the single performance obligation is satisfied at the completion of the auction process. We do not take ownership of these consigned vehicles which are stored at our facilities located throughout the U.S. and international locations. These fees are recognized as net revenue (not gross vehicle selling price) at the time of auction in the amount of such fees charged.

We have a separate performance obligation related to providing access to our online auction platform. We charge members an annual registration fee for the right to participate in our online auctions and access our bidding platform. This fee is recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, generally one year, as each day of access to the online auction platform represents the best depiction of the transfer of the service. 

No provision for returns has been established, as all sales are final with no right of return or warranty, except for separately identified vehicles subject to the arbitration policy, although we provide for expected credit losses in the case of non-performance by our buyers or sellers.

Vehicle sales

Certain vehicles are purchased and remarketed on our own behalf. We have a single performance obligation related to the sale of these vehicles, which is the completion of the online auction process. Vehicle sales revenue is recognized on the auction date. As we act as a principal in vehicle sales transactions, the gross sales price at auction is recorded as revenue.

Contract assets

We capitalize certain contract assets related to obtaining a contract, where the amortization period for the related asset is greater than one year. These assets are amortized over the expected life of the customer relationship. Contract assets are classified as current or long-term other assets, based on the timing of when we expect to recognize the related revenues and are amortized as an offset to the associated revenues on a straight-line basis. We assess these costs for impairment at least quarterly and as “triggering” events occur that indicate it is more likely than not that an impairment exists. The contract asset costs where the amortization period for the related asset is one year or less are expensed as incurred and recorded within general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.

Income Taxes

In determining net income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments in the

calculation of tax provisions and the resultant tax liabilities. 

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on differences between the financial reporting and income tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the tax rates and laws enacted at the time of such determination. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability, and a valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we make estimates and assumptions regarding projected future taxable income, the reversal of deferred tax liabilities and implementation of tax planning strategies. Changes in our assumptions could cause an increase or decrease to the valuation allowance resulting in an increase or decrease in our effective tax rate.

We recognize liabilities when we determine a tax position is not more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the tax authorities. We use judgment in determining whether a tax position's technical merits are more likely than not to be sustained and in measuring the amount of tax benefit that qualifies for recognition. We recognize penalties and interest accrued related to income taxes as a component of the provision for income taxes. Although we believe the estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of these matters will not be different from what is reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals.

We recognize liabilities, if any, related to global low-taxed intangible income in the year in which the liability arises and not as a deferred tax liability.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

For a description of the new accounting standards that affect us, refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative