, and “Asset Quality” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K.)

Noninterest Income. Noninterest income was $26.2 million for fiscal 2023, an increase of $5.0 million, or 23.6%, when compared to the prior fiscal year. Increases in deposit service charges, bank card interchange income, income on non-deposit investment products, loan servicing fees, other loan fees, and earnings on BOLI contributed to the year-over year increase, partially offset by a decrease in gains on sale of residential loans originated for sale into the secondary market. Most categories of noninterest income increased due to the impact of the January 2023 Citizens merger and the February 2022 Fortune merger.

Noninterest Expense. Noninterest expense was $86.4 million for fiscal 2023, an increase of $23.0 million, or 36.4%, when compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase included $4.9 million in charges related to merger and acquisition activity, which was primarily attributable to legal and professional fees, data processing and telecommunications, and team member compensation and expenses. In total, the increase in noninterest expense was attributable primarily to compensation and benefits, legal and professional fees, occupancy expenses, data processing expenses, amortization of intangibles, deposit insurance premiums, and other noninterest expenses. The increase in compensation and benefits as compared to the prior year period primarily reflected increased headcount for part of the fiscal year resulting from recent merger activity, compensation adjustments over the prior year, one-time compensation attributable to the Citizens merger, and a continued trend of increasing legacy employee headcount. Compensation adjustments over the last several fiscal years have exceeded historical trends. Data processing expenses increased primarily as a result of data conversion charges associated with the Citizens merger, and also reflected continued investments in new software and systems. Occupancy expenses increased primarily due to facilities added through the Citizens merger. Other noninterest expenses increased due to miscellaneous acquisition-related expenses, expenses related to loan originations, and expenses related to employee travel and training.

Provision for Income Taxes. The Company recorded an income tax provision of $10.2 million for fiscal 2023, a decrease of $2.5 million, or 19.7%, as compared to the prior fiscal year, which was attributable to lower pre-tax income and a decrease in the effective tax rate to 20.7% for fiscal 2023, as compared to 21.3% for fiscal 2022.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Southern Missouri’s primary potential sources of funds include deposit growth, FHLB advances, amortization and prepayment of loan principal, investment maturities and sales, and capital generated from ongoing operations. While scheduled repayments on loans and securities as well as the maturity of short-term investments are a relatively predictable source of funding, deposit flows, FHLB advance redemptions and loan and security prepayment rates are 

significantly influenced by factors outside of the Bank’s control, including general economic conditions and market competition. The Bank has relied on FHLB advances as a source for funding cash or liquidity needs.

Southern Missouri uses its liquid assets as well as other funding sources to meet ongoing commitments, to fund loan demand, to repay maturing certificates of deposit and FHLB advances, to make investments, to fund other deposit withdrawals, and to meet operating expenses. At June 30, 2024, the Bank had outstanding commitments to extend credit of $898.6 million (including $689.6 million in unused lines of credit). Total commitments to originate fixed-rate loans with terms in excess of one year were $159.3 million at rates ranging from 4.95% to 9.0%, with a weighted-average rate of 7.04%. Management anticipates that current funding sources will be adequate to meet foreseeable liquidity needs.

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, Southern Missouri increased deposits by $226.9 million, and decreased FHLB advances by $31.5 million. During the prior fiscal year, Southern Missouri increased deposits by $910.5 million, and increased FHLB advances by $95.6 million. The deposit increase in 2023 was primarily attributable to the Citizens merger increasing deposits by $851.1 million, net of fair value adjustments. At June 30, 2024, the Bank reported $1.4 billion of its single-family residential and commercial real estate loan portfolios as eligible collateral to the FHLB for available credit of approximately $845.1 million, of which $102.1 million was advanced, while $461,000 was encumbered in relation to residential real estate loans sold onto the secondary market through the FHLB. The Bank had also pledged $383.6 million of its agricultural real estate and agricultural operating and equipment loans to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis’s discount window for available credit of approximately $323.4 million, as of June 30, 2024, none of which was advanced. In addition, as of June 30, 2024, the Bank had other assets available to pledge to the FHLB and Federal Reserve to access additional liquidity. In total, FHLB borrowings are limited to 45% of Bank assets, or approximately $2.1 billion as most recently reported by the FHLB as of June 30, 2024, which means that an amount up to $2.0 billion may still be eligible to be borrowed from the FHLB, subject to available collateral. Along with the ability to borrow from the FHLB and Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, management believes its liquid resources will be sufficient to meet the Company’s liquidity needs.

Liquidity management is an ongoing responsibility of the Bank’s management. The Bank adjusts its investment in liquid assets based upon a variety of factors including (i) expected loan demand and deposit flows, (ii) anticipated investment and FHLB advance maturities, (iii) the impact on profitability, and (iv) asset/liability management objectives.

At June 30, 2024, the Bank had $1.1 billion in CDs maturing within one year and $2.6 billion in non-maturity deposits, as compared to $690.5 million in CDs maturing within one year and $2.7 billion in non-maturity deposits as of June 30, 2023. Management believes that most maturing interest-bearing liabilities will be retained or replaced by new interest-bearing liabilities. Also, at June 30, 2024, the Bank had no overnight advances from the FHLB, $8.0 million in term FHLB advances maturing within one year, and $94.1 million in FHLB advances with a maturity date in excess of one year. Of the advances with maturity dates in excess of one year, none was eligible for early redemption by the lender within one year.

We also incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to expand and improve our product offerings, enhance and modernize our technology infrastructure, and to introduce new technology-based products to compete effectively in our markets. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on a variety of factors, including expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted impact on revenue growth, productivity, expenses, service levels and customer retention) and our expected return on investment. The amount of capital investment is influenced by, among other things, current and projected demand for our services and products, cash flow generated by operating activities, cash required for other purposes and regulatory considerations. At June 30, 2024, we had other future obligations and accrued expenses of $19.9 million. Based on our current capital allocation objectives, during fiscal 2025 we project expending approximately $7.0 million to $10.0 million of cash for capital investment in technology, property, plant and equipment. In addition, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2025, we project that our fixed commitments will include (i) $1.5 million of operating and finance lease and other fixed payments and (ii) $1.7 million of scheduled interest payments on subordinate notes. We believe that our liquid assets combined with the available lines of credit provide adequate liquidity to meet our current financial obligations for at least the next 12 months.

REGULATORY CAPITAL

Federally insured financial institutions are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital. Federal Reserve regulations establish capital requirements, including a tier 1 leverage (or core capital) requirement and risk-based capital requirements. The Federal Reserve Board is also authorized to impose capital requirements in excess of these standards on individual institutions on a case-by-case basis.

At June 30, 2024, the Bank exceeded regulatory capital requirements with tier 1 capital, total risk-based capital, and common equity tier 1 capital of $447.2 million, $496.1 million and $447.2 million, respectively. The Bank’s tier 1 capital represented 9.79% of total adjusted assets and 11.43% of total risk-weighted assets, while total risk-based capital was 12.68% of total risk-weighted assets, and common equity tier 1 capital was 11.43% of total risk-weighted assets. To be considered adequately capitalized under the FDIC Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) guidelines, the Bank must maintain tier 1 capital levels of at least 4.0% of adjusted total assets and 6.0% of risk-weighted assets, total risk-based capital of 8.0% of risk-weighted assets, and common equity tier 1 capital of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets. To be considered well capitalized, the Bank must maintain tier 1 capital levels of at least 5.0% of adjusted total assets and 8.0% of risk-weighted assets, total risk-based capital of 10.0% of risk-weighted assets, and common equity tier 1 capital of 6.5% of risk-weighted assets.

At June 30, 2024, the Company exceeded regulatory capital requirements with tier 1 capital, total risk-based capital, and common equity tier 1 capital of $467.0 million, $524.0 million and $451.5 million, respectively. The Company’s tier 1 capital represented 10.19% of total adjusted assets and 11.79% of total risk-weighted assets, while total risk-based capital was 13.23% of total risk-weighted assets, and common equity tier 1 capital was 11.39% of total risk-weighted assets. Under 12 CFR Part 217 -- Capital Adequacy of Bank Holding Companies, Savings and Loan Holding Companies, and State Member Banks (Regulation Q), the Company is subject to the following minimum regulatory capital requirements: common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%, tier 1 capital ratio of 6%, total capital ratio of 8% of risk-weighted assets, and leverage ratio of 4%.

See Item 1 – Business – Regulation, and Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional detail on the Company’s capital requirements.

IMPACT OF INFLATION

The consolidated financial statements and related data presented herein have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which require the measurement of financial position and operating results in historical dollars without considering changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. The primary impact of inflation on the operations of the Company is reflected in increased operating costs. Unlike most industrial companies, virtually all of the assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature. As a result, changes in interest rates generally have a more significant impact on a financial institution’s performance than does inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily move in the same direction or to the same extent as the prices of goods and services. In the current interest rate environment, liquidity and maturity structure of the Company’s assets and liabilities are critical to the maintenance of acceptable performance levels.

AVERAGE BALANCE, INTEREST AND AVERAGE YIELDS AND RATES

The following table sets forth certain information relating to the Company’s average interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and reflects the average yield on assets and the average cost of liabilities for the periods indicated. These yields and costs are derived by dividing income or expense by the average balance of assets or liabilities, respectively, for the years indicated. Nonaccrual loans are included with other noninterest-earning assets.

The table also presents information with respect to the difference between the weighted-average yield earned on interest-earning assets and the weighted-average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, which financial institutions have traditionally used as an indicator of profitability. Another indicator of an institution’s net interest income is its net yield (or net interest margin) on interest-earning assets, which is its net interest income divided by the average balance of interest-earning assets. Net interest income is affected by the interest rate spread and by the 

relative amounts of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. When interest-earning assets approximate or exceed interest-bearing liabilities, any positive interest rate spread will generate net interest income.

​

​

YIELDS EARNED AND RATES PAID

The following table sets forth for the periods and at the date indicated, the weighted average yields earned on the Company’s assets, the weighted average interest rates paid on the Company’s liabilities, together with the net yield on interest-earning assets.

​

RATE/VOLUME ANALYSIS

The following table sets forth the effects of changing rates and volumes on net interest income of the Company. Information is provided with respect to (i) effects on interest income attributable to changes in volume (changes in volume multiplied by prior rate), (ii) effects on interest income attributable to changes in rate (changes in rate multiplied by prior volume), and (iii) changes in rate/volume (change in rate multiplied by change in volume).

​
